--- Page 17 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Neuro/295(i)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 17 
 
 
Upon the successful and timely submission of bids (i.e. after Clicking “Freeze Bid Submission” in the 
portal), the portal will give a successful bid submission message & a bid Tender No. : ................................. 
summary will be displayed with the bid no. and the date & time of submission of the bid with all other 
relevant details. 
 
 
The bid summary has to be printed and kept as an acknowledgement of the submission of the bid. This 
acknowledgement may be used as an entry pass for any bid opening meetings. 
 
ASSISTANCE TO BIDDERS 
 
 
Any queries relating to the tender document and the terms and conditions contained therein should be 
addressed to the Tender Inviting Authority for a tender or the relevant contact person indicated in the tender. 
 
 
Any queries relating to the process of online bid submission or queries relating to CPP Portal in general may 
be directed to the 24x7 CPP Portal Helpdesk number 0120-4200462, 0120- 4001002. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A mobile C-arm Image Intensifier with integrated cables and electromagnetic brakes is required for Neuro surgery  
1. 
System should be ECE&US FDA approved. 


--- Page 18 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Neuro/295(i)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 18 
 
2. 
AERB approved 
3. 
Having ISO certification 
4. 
The C arm should have rotational movements and all the movements should be counterbalanced. 
5. 
The continuous fluoroscopy, digital pulsed fluoroscopy and digital radiography operating modes are to be 
supported.  
6. 
The C arm should have the facility to produce instantaneous coronary, saggital and axial images of the 
scanned parts as per case. 
7. 
Should have technology to produce optimal high quality image even if the region of interest is not in the 
centre of image intensifier i.e. multiple matrixes. 
8. 
It should be possible to Display dose reporting also. 
9. 
The camera system should be based on maintenance free CCD technology with a digital imaging system 
for fluoroscopy and radiography, with TV matrix at least 1K2 & digital image rotation of 360 Degrees. 
10. 
Image archiving on USB & DVD (DVD read/write) with it’s genuine viewer software and Image storage 
of at least 10000 or more images is mandatory- give details of storage of 2D images. 
11. 
It must be equipped with latest DICOM interface. (view,store, print, worklist) 
12. 
System should be ready to connect with HIS/PACS. 
13. 
Noise filter with on screen indicator. 
14. 
Should be capable of integration with leading neuronavigation systems- (eg Brain lab/Medtronics) 
15. 
Entire system should be computer controlled and software upgradable. 
16. 
There should be programs to reduce dose during fluoroscopy. Patient dose should be displayed on the 
monitor. 
17. 
It should be possible to carry out continuous fluoroscopy for prolonged procedures.  
18. 
Cassette exposures should also be possible. 
19. 
The C arm should  have the following movements: 
a. 
Motorized Vertical Movement : 40 cm or more 
b. 
Horizontal travel : 20 cm or more  
c. 
Angulation : +90°, -25° degrees or more 
d. 
Orbital movement: 170 degrees or more movement. Motorised movements during 3D is preferable. 
e. 
Source –I.I. distance 95 cm or more 
f. 
 Vertical free space- 75 cm or more  
g. 
 Beside above give details of depth and swivel angles. 
20. 
X-ray generator : 


--- Page 19 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Neuro/295(i)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 19 
 
The X-ray generator should use high frequency technology, should be controlled by microprocessor and the output 
should be 15 kW or more. 
Pulse fluoroscopy should be offered as a standard. The output should be as follows: 
a. 
Pulsed Fluoroscopy : 110 kV or more and 40 mA or more 
b. 
Digital Radiography : 110 kV and greater than 75 mA 
c. 
Organ specific user programs should be present 
d. 
Possibility to have various dose options during fluoroscopy 
e. 
Automatic Dose Rate controlling should be done to prevent over exposure. Laser based targeting devices 
should be present to reduce radiation during centring. 
21. 
X-ray tube : 
Rotatory anode X-ray tube with dual focal spots. The focal spot size should be 0.3mm or less for small focal spot 
and 0.6 mm or less for large focal spot.  Inherent filtration 3.0 mm AI or better. The tube should have over load 
protection. 
22. 
Collimation : 
Iris collimation should be present and it should be possible to operate the collimator without radiation, 360 degree 
rotation should be possible; Indication for LIH. 
23. 
Image Intensifier system: 
12 inch image high resolution intensifier with triple field zoom. Image rotation should be possible without giving 
radiation to the patient. Input screen should be cesium iodide for excellent resolution and minimum noise. Electron 
optics should allow consistent high resolution across the entire Image field -Give details. 
 Give details about the grid. 
24. 
Patient data Management: 
It should be possible to maintain a complete data base of the patient with easy retrieval. It should be possible to 
make additions or make changes to the patient data at a later stage. 
25. 
Monitors : 
2 no. medical grade TFT monitors with diagonal size of 19 inch or more. The display should be of 1K matrix with 
256 gray shades. Resolution min 1024×1024 or better, wide viewing angle.  
26. 
Image display: 
It should be possible for having 2 nos. screen displays (give details). Last Image Hold should be standard. 
Simultaneous display of old and new reference images. 
27. 
Image Processing : 
a) 
Manual contrast and brightness adjustment, Edge enhancement, zooming, digital Image rotation, 
horizontal and vertical flip.  
b) 
Alphanumeric keyboard for entering patient data and for image annotation etc. 
c) 
Digital Shutters (Image cropping). 


--- Page 20 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Neuro/295(i)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 20 
 
d) 
Digital measurement functions for distances & angle measurement (post processing)  
e) 
Annotation should be possible. 
f) 
Save and auto-save feature. 
g) 
Swap and auto-swap feature. 
28. 
The machine should be capable of real time Digital Subtraction Angiography (DSA) with the following 
features: 
a) 
Acquisition frame rate: 25 frames/sec or more 
b) 
Storage rate: 10 fps or more 
c) 
Auto request for contrast injection 
d) 
Roadmap technique for dilatation 
e) 
Pixel shift, variable landmark and remasking should be possible 
f) 
Peak opacification 
g) 
Movie function with START/STOP function 
h) 
Lookup tables 
i) 
Magnifying glass 
j) 
Interactive zoom 
29. 
Accessories to be supplied- 
a) 
Lead-free light-weighted aprons for radiation protection (all round protection) with 0.5mm lead 
equivalence certified by BARC/ AERB & ISO – 08. 
b) 
Lead-free light-weighted aprons for radiation protection (front protection) with 0.5mm lead equivalence 
certified by BARC/ AERB & ISO – 08. 
c) 
Thyroid shields – 08 
d) 
Lead-aprons hanger – 01. 
e) 
Any other required accessory for DSA imaging 
30. 
Onsite comprehensive training for staff for a period of three months from date of installation or till the 
time staff is trained in usage as well as maintenance of equipment. 
31. 
Warranty & CMC 
a) 5 year comprehensive onsite warranty of entire system (Spares and labour) including X-ray tube and all 
accessories and civil, electrical and air conditioning works followed by 5 year CMC. 
b) 
Company should confirm the availability of spare parts for 10 years from the date of supply of the 
equipment. 
c) 
Company should have 24 x 7 call support facility  
d) 
List of spare parts with cost must be provided. 


--- Page 21 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Neuro/295(i)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 21 
 
32. 
Power Supply 
a) 
Power input to be 200-240VAC, 50Hz, Fitted with Indian type plug. 
b) 
Resettable over current breaker/ANY other protection device shall be fitted for protection. 
33. A high end MACINTOSH BASED COMPUTER with at least 8 GB RAM,  GRAPHICS,  with installed 
GENIUNE VIDEO EDITING SOFTWARE  TO RUN AND EDIT DSA IMAGES AND VIDEOS SHOULD BE 
SUPPLIED, PLUS 2 TB OF EXTERNAL HARD DRIVE (not requiring external power) should be supplied 
34. Compliance statement should be presented in a tabulated manner- mentioning the page/para number of original 
catalogue/data sheet. Any point not substantiated with authenticated catalogue/manual will not be considered. 
35. Please make sure to submit copies of all certifications- USFDA/ECE/AERB & ISO + LIST OF 
INSTALLATIONS in India with performance and after sale service records at time of submission of bids only to 
save tender processing time. 
 


