--- Page 22 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/20/31/OT 
 
Page 22 of 25 
 
 
ANNEXURE-III 
 
Technical Specifications for Endoscopic Tissue Morcellator for Urology: 
S. No. Specifications 
1. 
[A] General requirements 
1. The Tissue Morcellator should provide rapid endoscopic removal of soft tissue and should 
havea compatible suction-irrigation pump for continuous irrigation and aspiration of irrigation 
fluidand enucleated tissue. 
2. All above instruments must be from a single original equipment manufacturer (OEM). 
3. All equipment supplied must be the latest models of the quoted versions. 
4. Warranty: Five years from the date of installation (including all spares and labour). 
5. CMC: For 6th to 10th year, after expiry of warranty period (including all spares and labour). 
6. Along the Bid all the firms are required to submit copy of manufacturer catalogue with 
clearmarking of each quoted item and catalogue No. with a highlighter to avoid discrepancy.  
7. All the firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to other Central Institutes/ Govt. 
Institutesand should submit a certificate of satisfactory working from the concernedInstitution. 
8. Physical Demonstration is required for technical evaluation in case of discrepancy. 
9. All required quality & electrical safety testing certificates, brochures, user manual, service 
manual & safety checklists & required maintenance schedule must be supplied in original during 
installation. 
[B] Tissue Morcellator Control Unit: Qty. 01 Set 
1. Power control generator unit including footswitch, 50/60Hz, 100-240 V.A.C. 
2. Maximum number of revolutions can be pre-set. 
3. Processer controlled RPM & motor torque. 
4. Clear display of operating parameters. 
5. Compatible suction control unit with foot switch to be provided. 
[C] Morcellator Hand piece: Qty. 01 Set 
1. Ergonomic adjustable handpiece with central straight suction channel. 
2. Suitable cleaning adaptors should be provided. 
[D] Morcellator Blades: Qty. 03 set 
1. The morcellator Blades should be autoclavable, reusable&side cutting. 
2. Noiseless running. 
3. Cutting action should be oscillating type. 
4. Should be provided with cleaning brushes and sterilization tray from same OEM. 
[E] Morcelloscope: Qty. 01 Set 
1. The morcelloscope should be of Wide-Angle Straight Forward Telescope 6-12degrees,with 
parallel eyepiece, autoclavable, with LUER-Lock connection for inflow,with instrument channel, 
fibre optic light transmission incorporated. The workinglength should be at least 25cm. 
2. Should be compatible with provided Resectoscope sheaths. 
3. Should be provided with all connectors/adaptors for using the sheath withMorcelloscope. 
[F] Laser Resectoscope Set: Qty.01 Set 
1. Forward oblique 30-degree telescope, 4 mm diameter, autoclavable, length 30 cm, fibre optic 
light transmission incorporated- 01 pc. 
2. Cystoscope-Urethroscope sheath, 22 Fr, with obturator and 2 Luer-lock connectors- 01 pc. 
3. Telescope bridge with single lockable working channel- 01 pc. 
4. Monopolar Passive Working Element- 01 pc. 
5. Rotatable Outer sheath, 26 Fr and Inner Sheath for use with 26Fr Outer Sheath with obturator- 
01set. 
6. Compatible Visual Obturator- 01 pc. 


--- Page 23 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/20/31/OT 
 
Page 23 of 25 
 
7. Monopolar HF-Cable- 01 pc. 
8. Monopolar Cutting loop electrode- 05 pc. 
9. Monopolar Coagulation roller electrode- 05 pc. 
10. Monopolar Collins/ Needle electrode- 05 pc. 
11. Sachse/Optical Urethrotome Set: The set should have a 21Fr Urethrotome sheath with 
obturator and channel for Urethrotome working element. There should be a telescope bridge for 
use with the Urethrotome sheath with a 5 Fr working channel for instruments. A supplementary 
half-moon sheath, that slips on the Urethrotome sheath and is side-open for introduction of the 
balloon-tipped catheter, should be included. It should be compatible with provided passive 
working element. The set should be provided with cold knifes- 10 no. [Straight/Lancet type- 5 pc, 
Half-moon/ Semi-circular type- 5 pc.] 
12. Laser Working Element, compatible with exchangeable Laser Guide Probes & provided 
Resectoscope Sheaths-01 pc. 
13. Laser Guide Probe, with retracting beaks, inner diameter 0.8mm, exchangeable- 01 pc. 
14. Laser Guide Probe, with retracting beaks, inner diameter 1.5mm, exchangeable- 01 pc. 
 
[G] Suction-Irrigation Pump Unit: Qty. 01 Set 
1. It should be use as Suction device/Suction control device for Morcellationprocedure.Suction 
pump/Control unit for suction and continuous aspiration of irrigation fluid and enucleated tissue. 
2. It should be usable with normal Vacuum device and central Vacuum. 
3. It should be controlled manually as well as by foot switch. 
4. It should be supplied with following accessories: 
(i) Power supply: 100-240 VAC, 50/60 Hz. 
(ii) Sterilizable Tubing Setfor suction: Qty. Two set 
(iii) A mainpower cable. 
(iv) Connecting cable, length 100cm. 
(v) It should have integrated tissue collection disposable kit: Qty. 20 
[H] Standards & Safety requirements: 
1. Manufacturer/ Supplier must have ISO certificate or equivalent to quality standard. 
2. Must be compliant with IEC 60601-1 (or, any international equivalent e.g. EN/ UL 61010) 
covering safety requirement for medical electrical equipment. 
3. Product must be BIS or European CE with 4-digit notified body no. and US FDAapproved for 
the intended use. 
 
Instructions for Online Bid Submission: 
The bidders are required to submit soft copies of their bids electronically on the CPP Portal, using 
valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions given below are meant to assist the bidders in 
registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in accordance with the requirements and submitting 
their bids online on the CPP Portal.  
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at: 
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. 
REGISTRATION 
1) Bidders are required to enroll on the e-Procurement module of the Central Public Procurement 
Portal (URL: https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on the link “Online bidder 
Enrolment” on the CPP Portal which is free of charge. 
2) As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique username and 
assign a password for their accounts.  


