--- Page 68 ---
 
 
SECTION – VII  
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
1. Platform Pedography system- capable of measuring static and dynamic pressure distribution under the foot 
while standing and walking. 
2. The system should have stand- alone platform for Stance and Roll-Off analysis.  
3. The system should work on capacitive based sensors technology. 
4. It should have more than 2500 capacitive sensors. 
5. It should have minimum sensing area: 50 x 30 cm 
6. It should have minimum sampling rate: 100 Hz 
7. Measuring Range: 1-120 Newton per centimeter square or wider 
8. Accuracy: ±5% 
9. Hysteresis : Less than 3% 
10. It should have Sync. - in/Sync. -out interface. 
11. It should have software for data collection, analysis, and report generation. 
12. The report generated should include static load distribution analysis, basic function equilibrium analysis, 
roll-off analysis.  
13. The gait parameters should be displayed in the evaluation report. These should include, amongst others, 
the step length and step width, the stance, swing and double stance phase as well as the cadence. 
14. The evaluation reports should be freely configurable. The measurement procedure may be observed in a 
viewer, and if necessary be played back in slow motion. Individual time segments can be selected from the 
report for further analysis. 
15. Each sensor should produce its own calibration curve. Should display calibrated pressure values for each 
sensor. 
16. Should show 2D and 3D pictures of pressure point, the maximum pressure images, pressure and force 
curves and the individual phases of the roll off process. 
17. Should have algorithms for integration of multiple passes across the measurement surface 
18. Comparative analyses of two measurements should be possible.  
19. The system can be connected directly to a commercially available PC / laptop via USB interface and require 
no additional electronics.  
20. All raw values and the values of the evaluation report can be exported as data files. 
21. Pedography data should be compatible with CAD/CAM systems for the manufacturing of custom-made 
inserts. 
22. The Bidder should quote optional video camera - 2 Nos. - for video synchronization, and Bluetooth 
telemetry EMG for muscle function to analyze forces parallel to the ground reaction forces.  
23. System should be supplied with Laptop of suitable configuration. 
24. Should come with a stand for the evaluation computer with facilities for mounting optional camera and 
lighting units. 
25. The system should be IEC/European CE/USFDA approved. 
26. The system should have minimum 5 years warranty. 
 
 
 


