--- Page 64 ---
 
 
 
 
SECTION – VII 
TECHNICAL  SPECIFICATIONS  
 
1. Type: Both mydriatic and non-mydriatic 
2. Must have retinal image montage, HDR & colour and Red free imaging facility. 
3. Should be table mounted product. 
4. Should have ergonomic chin rest designed for patient comfort and stability 
5. Camera sensor resolution: minimum 6 megapixel 
6. Field of view: 45 degrees and above 
7. Should have refractive power compensation for ametropia with a focus range of -15 D to +15 D or 
wider 
8. Power Supply Source: AC100-240 V, 50/60Hz 
9. Should be compatible with Windows PC with facility for image storage in a secondary device such 
as desktop or a laptop 
10. Mode of connectivity to other device: USB 3.0 port 
11. Supporting latest computer system should be supplied along with the device (having minimum 
configuration- Intel i3 processor or better, 8 Gb RAM or better, hard disk 1000 GB or better, 2.4 
Ghz processor or better, USB port , Windows 10 OS 64 bit, PDF reader) 
12. DVD and CD Writer should be provided with system 
13. Image viewer and archive software should be provided with facility for data storage, data transfer, 
image archiving, image analysis 
14. Should be DICOM compliant and telemedicine ready. AI will be an added advantage. 
15. Should be supplied with a motorized table and patient stool 
16. Should be USFDA or European CE or BIS approved product. 
17. Should be ISO 13485:2016 certified 
18. Should be brand new and unused. 
19. Warranty: 5 years or more which should include (but not limited to) preventive maintenance visit 
one in each quarter. 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 65 ---
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Four years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document 
for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever 
applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning 
and Site Modification Work from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, 
trial run & handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by 
double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College on 
24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 
8 hrs. The service should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the 
Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 
10 years from the date 
of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents (if 
they 
have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction 
of the consignee. The same will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general 
technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site Modification 
Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes preventive 
maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service /operational manual 
of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory completion of Warranty period 
may be quoted for next 3 years on yearly basis for complete equipment 
(including Batteries 
for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). 
The supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended 
in the manufacturer‟s technical/ 
service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ 
year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender Opening. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any 
such stipulation 
the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim for the same 
will be entertained 
later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be taken at Net 
Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory completion of said 
period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee for 2.5% of the cost of the 
equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) 
basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime period. 
f) During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee‟s site at least twice in 
6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, commencing 
from the date of the successful completion of warranty period for preventive maintenance 
of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the Bank 
Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 66 ---
 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, wherever 
required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be installed, in 
consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. Site Modification Work 
details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end of Technical Specification. 
The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of the Machine and Site Modification Work 
of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian 
Rupee will be added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price 
will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderers attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). 
The tenderer 
is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. accordingly failing which 
it‟s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of equipment 
for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should 
make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment to periodically 
check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety Standards IS-13540 which is also 
equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 
60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the 
Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they should provide a commitment to get 
the equipment checked for electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs 
/ Electronics Test and Development Centres across the country on every preventive 
maintenance call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management information 
system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical 
training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at the 
institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be required to train the 
institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC 
period 


