--- Page 6 ---
 
Tender for Administration Software                                                              Tender No. -Admn/Tender/72/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 6 
 
Annexure-I 
Technical Specification 
Administration 
Director/VC 
Deputy Director/Joint Directors 
Administrative Officer/Administrator 
Chief Proctor/ Proctor 
Registrar 
Financial Adviser 
Account Officers 
Legal Cell/Court Cases 
Medical Superintendent 
PRO/Protocol 
Head of Departments 
Civil works 
Engineering 
Electrical 
Maintenance 
Stores 
Custodial Janitorial Staff 
Security 
Proposals 
General Administration 
Human Resources 
Recruitment 
Sales 
Academic Calendar 
Attendance 
Conferences and Symposia 
Duty Assignment 
Fees and Fines 
File Tracker 
Hostel Allocation 
Identity Cards 
Leave Calendar 
Library 
Leave Travel Concession 
Parking 
Recruitment 
Salary and Payroll 
Taxation 
NPS, PF, GST etc. 
Space Allocation 
 
The Administration module should integrate seamlessly with existing software modules in the 
institution and draw information from them where necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 7 ---
 
Tender for Administration Software                                                              Tender No. -Admn/Tender/72/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 7 
 
Administration 
Director/VC 
1. It should have provision for login of Institutional Director 
2. It should have provision for display of all reports on Directors panel 
3. It should have provision for display of file tracker on directors panel 
4. It should have provision for approval of leaves 
5. It should have provision for approval of LTC 
6. It should have provision for approval of conference attendance 
7. It should have provision for approval of conferences and symposia  
8. It should have the provision for recording biometric attendance. 
 
Deputy Director/Joint Directors 
1. It should have provision for login of Joint Director/ Deputy Director Administration 
2. It should have provision for display of all reports on Deputy Directors panel 
3. It should have provision for display of file tracker on Deputy directors panel 
4. It should have provision for approval of leaves 
5. It should have provision for approval of LTC 
6. It should have provision for approval of conference attendance 
7. It should have provision for approval of conferences and symposia  
8. It should have provision for making the academic calendar for the institution. 
9. It should provision for displaying the academic calendar to the staff of the institution. 
 
Administrative Officer/Administrator 
1. It should have provision for login of Administrative Officer panel 
2. It should have provision for display of all reports on Administrative Officer panel 
3. It should have provision for display of file tracker on Administrative Officer panel 
4. It should have provision for approval of leaves 
5. It should have provision for approval of LTC 
6. It should have provision for approval of conference attendance 
7. It should have provision for approval of conferences and symposia  
8. It should have provision for making the academic calendar for the institution. 
9. It should provision for displaying the academic calendar to the staff of the institution. 
 
Chief Proctor/ Proctor 
1. It should have provision for issue of bar coded id cards 
2. It should have provision for application of fines on the student record 
3. It should have provision for internal messaging to higher authority 
4. It should have provision for issue of notices by proctor 
5. It should have provision for suspension of student whereby their attendance is abrogated 
 
Registrar 
1. It should have provision for approval of leaves 
2. It should have provision for online receipt of correspondence and assigning bar coded file number 
3. It should have provision for seeing employee leave records 
4. It should have provision for seeing employee files 
5. It should have provision for creating new employee records 
6. It should have provision for differentiating permanent from contractual employees. 
 
Financial Adviser 
1. It should have provision for entry of institution incomes and all expenditures. 
2. It should have provision for creation of various budget heads of income and expenditure 
3. It should have provision for fund allocation to virtual bank 
4. It should have provision for fund allocation to budget heads 
5. It should have provision for monitoring institution expenditure 
6. It should have provision for creating a balance sheet 
7. It should have provision for monitoring cash intake from institutional services 
8. It should have provision for entering payments. 


--- Page 8 ---
 
Tender for Administration Software                                                              Tender No. -Admn/Tender/72/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 8 
 
Account Officers 
1. It should have provision for monitoring cash intake from various counters 
2. It should have provision for monitoring cash intake from user charges 
3. It should have provision for monitoring cash intake from sale counters 
4. It should have provision for monitoring cash intake from investigation services 
5. It should have provision for monitoring cash deductions from advance deposits 
6. It should have provision for advance deposits 
7. It should have provision for refunds and their monitoring 
8. It should have provision for free category employees and VIP’s. 
9. It should have provision for preparation of accounts (vouchers, ledgers etc.)  
10. It should have provision of preparation and comparison of actuals versus budgets online. 
 
Legal Cell/Court Cases 
1. It should have provision for creating file records of legal proceedings 
2. It should have provision for recording status of legal proceedings 
3. It should have provision for recording counsel remunerations 
4. It should have provision for enrollment of counsel 
5. It should have provision for uploading of pdf documents 
6. It should have provision for listing of pending and closed proceedings 
7. It should have provision for digital signature of documents 
 
Medical Superintendent 
1. It should have provision for creation of employee health cards 
2. It should have provision for uploading of employee health documents 
3. It should have provision for approval of employee health cards 
4. It should have provision for assignment of DMS stores 
5. It should have provision for online prescription of medicines 
6. It should have provision for online issue of medicines 
 
PRO/Protocol 
1. It should have provision for identification of BPL patients 
2. It should have provision for document upload of BPL and free category patients 
3. It should have provision for document verification of BPL and free category patients 
4. It should have provision for searching for patient on any bed in the hospital 
5. It should have provision for bed display of entire hospital 
6. It should have provision for bed occupation and vacancy statistics 
7. It should have provision for managing VIP patients 
 
Head of Departments 
1. It should have provision for showing on bed list of entire department. 
2. It should have provision for showing Operation lists of entire department 
3. It should have provision for showing bed occupancy and vacancy statistics 
4. It should have provision for showing number of operations performed in the department in a 
specified date range 
5. It should have provision for approving different categories of leaves online. 
6. It should have provision for issue of departmental notices 
7. It should have provision for Seeing details of employees and nursing staff 
8. It should have provision for scheduling academic activity of the department 
9. It should have the provision for deputing of teachers for institution academic activity 
10. It should have the provision for biometric attendance 
 
Civil works 
1. It should have provision for creation of civil project proposals 
2. It should have provision for budget allocation for civil project proposals 
3. It should have provision for monitoring of civil project proposals 
4. It should have provision for generation of progress reports 
5. It should have provision for generation of fund receipt and expenditure reports. 


--- Page 9 ---
 
Tender for Administration Software                                                              Tender No. -Admn/Tender/72/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 9 
 
Engineering 
1. It should have provision for maintenance of civil engineering stores 
2. It should have provision for allocation of civil works tasks 
3. It should have provision for monitoring of civil works tasks 
4. It should have provision for generating civil work progress report 
5. It should have provision for displaying status of civil work tasks 
6. It should have provision for sending civil work request 
7. It should have provision for tracking civil work files 
8. It should have provision for indicating completion and payment of civil works 
 
Electrical 
1. It should have provision for generating electrical work request 
2. It should have provision for approval of electrical work request  
3. It should have provision for monitoring progress of electrical work 
4. It should have provision for generating progress report of electrical work 
5. It should have provision for maintenance of electrical store 
 
Custodial Janitorial Staff 
1. It should have provision for keeping record of custodial/janitorial staff 
2. It should have provision for creation of staff categories 
3. It should have provision for attendance of custodial and janitorial staff 
4. It should have provision for approving leaves of the custodial and janitorial staff 
5. It should have provision for posting of custodial and janitorial staff 
6. It should have provision for work replacement of custodial and janitorial staff 
 
Security 
1. It should have provision for generating security requirements  
2. It should have provision for posting security personnel 
3. It should have provision for differentiating security services in house and outsourced  
4. It should have provision for posting security personnel 
5. It should have provision for security personnel attendance 
6. It should have provision for recording of security lapses 
7. It should have provision for filing incident report 
 
Proposals 
1. It should have provision for generating proposals 
2. It should have provision for keeping track of proposals 
3. It should have provision for displaying status of proposals 
4. It should have provision for indicating completed and pending proposals list 
5. It should have provision for follow up of proposals 
 
General Administration 
1. It should provide for addition of Faculty, Student, Employees, Nursing and Paramedical Staff to 
the Hospital Rolls 
2. It should provide for the addition of Students and Trainees to the College 
3. It should provide for the addition of investigations to the services 
4. It should provide for the addition of Wards, Beds and Buildings  
5. It should provide for the addition of Departments, Equipment, consumables, drugs, disposables to 
the purchase module of the hospital 
6. It should provide for the addition of New peripheral clinics and hospitals which are governed from 
the same parent institution 
7. It should provide for the addition of OPD schedules, on call days, theatre and non-operative OR 
services. 
8. It should provide for the addition of ICU beds, ICU schedules and on calls 
9. It should provide for reporting of Departments. 
10. It should provide for reporting of Wards, beds, ICU’s, theatres and Labs 


--- Page 10 ---
 
Tender for Administration Software                                                              Tender No. -Admn/Tender/72/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
11. It should provide for reporting of Bed Allocations and numbering 
12. It should provide for reporting of OPD schedules, OPD attendance within date specified period. 
13. It should provide for reporting of inpatient admissions and bed occupancy over date specified 
periods with graphical representation. 
14. It should provide for reporting of OPD registrations over a date specified period with graphical 
representation 
15. It should provide for reporting of Cash flow with graphical representation 
16. It should provide for reporting of OPD schedules 
17. It should provide for reporting of Investigations performed in various departments 
18. It should provide for reporting of all the equipment in the hospital 
19. It should provide for reporting of Surgical and non-surgical procedures 
20. It should provide for reporting of all medical, non-medical and para medical users 
21. It should provide for reporting of Biomedical waste generation and disposal 
22. It should provide for reporting of Student strength in various courses. 
23. It should provide reporting of examinations held in various courses 
24. It should provide for reporting of Medical and non-medical stores, their intake and consumption 
within the institution 
25. It should provide for reporting of Patient user charges 
26. It should provide for reporting of free, below poverty line and special category patients 
27. It should provide for reporting of blood bank functioning, intake and disbursal of blood and blood 
products. 
28. It should provide for reporting of consumption of imaging materials like radiology films, 
ultrasound paper etc. 
29. It should provide for reporting of Hospital admissions, bed occupancy statistics 
30. It should provide for reporting of disease specific numbers and statistics 
31. It should provide for reporting of mortality, medico legal and adverse outcome statistics. 
32. It should provide for generation of printed reports of any hospital information with date specified 
periods at any time.  
 
Human Resources 
1. It should have provision for creation of employee categories 
2. It should have provision for employee types - permanent, adhoc etc. 
3. It should have the provision for creating separate employees 
4. It should have provision for monitoring counter work done by various employees 
5. It should have provision for deciding employee wages 
6. It should have provision for setting employee allowances 
7. It should have provision for setting and approving employee leaves 
8. It should have provision for monitoring of employee work 
 
Academic Calendar 
1. It should have provision for making academic calendar for undergraduate students 
2. It should have provision for making academic calendar for post graduate students 
3. It should have provision for editing academic calendar 
4. It should have provision for incorporating all academic activities like lectures, clinics, 
demonstrations, tutorials, labs, dissection hall activity etc. in the calendar 
5. It should have provision for opening each added event by clicking the link 
6. It should have provision for adding the name of the teacher / instructor who is to conduct the 
particular teaching session 
 
Attendance 
1. It should have provision for recording attendance of students, residents, employees, and faculty by 
scanning of bar coded id card 
2. It should have provision for display of attendance sheet by clicking the academic event for which 
the attendance is being taken 
3. It should have provision for tabulating the attendance of students and trainees 


--- Page 11 ---
 
Tender for Administration Software                                                              Tender No. -Admn/Tender/72/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
4. It should have provision for setting acute off level for low attendance in different academic 
activities 
5. It should have provision for signaling low attendance of a batch of students 
6. It should have provision for condoning some attendance shortage by authorized person 
7. It should have provision for display of examination eligibility on basis of attendance 
 
Accommodation 
10. It should have provision for recording of different categories of accommodation in the institution. 
11. It should have provision for allocation of accommodation 
12. It should have provision for display of accommodation occupation 
13. It should have provision for recording of accommodation related income and expenditure 
14. It should have provision for realizing accommodation related bills 
15. It should have provision for recording guest house accommodation as well 
16. It should have provision for guest house reservation requests. 
17. It should have provision for guest house reservation calendar 
18. It should have provision for recording of guest house reservation charges  
19. It should have provision for guest house reservation bills and printing. 
20. It should have provision for guest house reservation cancellation 
 
Conferences and Symposia 
1. It should have provision for making an annual conference calendar for the institution 
2. It should have provision for adding details of the conference such as subject, venue, dates, 
organizing committee, registration etc. 
3. It should have provision for application for conference funds form the institution 
4. It should have provision for tabulation of funds received for conferences and symposia 
 
Duty Assignment 
1. It should have provision for duty assignment for leave period 
2. It should have provision for making OPD tickets in the name of the person looking after the work 
3. It should have provision for emergency work by the person looking after the work 
4. It should have provision for different category of leaves 
 
Fees and Fines 
1. It should have provision for setting the various fees and fines in the institution 
2. It should have provision for realizing fees and fines from students and trainees 
3. It should have provision for maintaining accounts of fees and fines realized  
4. It should have provision for generating notices 
 
File Tracker 
1. It should have provision for generating a file/ letter number at the office which originates the file. 
2. It should have provision for generating a bar coded label for the file/ letter 
3. It should have provision for creating an origin electronic record related to the file/ letter 
4. It should have provision for filling in the letter title and purpose and remarks at the originating 
electronic record. 
5. It should have provision for scanning of the bar code at each point of receipt and dispatch of the 
file/ letter 
6. It should have provision for writing of remarks at all offices dealing with the letter. 
7. It should have provision for uploading of scanned copies of noting to the electronic record. 
8. It should have provision for closure of the electronic record when the file is closed 
9. It should have provision for generating date range reports of the letters received and dispatched 
10. It should have provision for recording the office of origin, date of dispatch, date of receipt, 
reference number, received from/ generated by and remarks 
11. It should have provision for intra system e mails and sms regarding sent files. 
 
Hostel Allocation 
1. It should have provision for keeping electronic record of all hostel rooms 


--- Page 12 ---
 
Tender for Administration Software                                                              Tender No. -Admn/Tender/72/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
2. It should have provision for displaying vacant and occupied rooms separately 
3. It should have provision for allocation of rooms by Chief Proctor 
4. It should have provision for recording details of students/ trainees to whom rooms are allocated 
5. It should have provision for removing students from hostel rooms by competent authority 
6. It should have provision for recording the facilities present in the rooms 
7. It should have provision for realizing of room charges according to the duration of allocation 
 
Identity Cards 
1. It should have provision for generation of bar coded identity cards for all category of students, 
trainees and employees without the use of a separate software. 
2. It should have provision for color coding of identity cards 
3. It should have provision for recording of faculty information on identity cards. 
4. It should have provision for taking attendance of students and trainees using the identity cards 
5. It should have provision for change of identity cards with promotion of faculty 
6. It should have provision for incorporating the Aadhar number in the identity card 
 
Leave Calendar 
1. It should have provision for setting the gazette holidays of the year 
2. It should have provision for setting the different types of leaves available in the year 
3. It should have provision for assigning duty to person who is looking after the work 
4. It should have provision for It should automatically generate OPD ticket for person looking after 
work 
 
Leave Travel Concession 
1. It should have provision for sending leave travel concession request. 
2. It should have provision for It should have provision for approval of LTC request 
 
Parking 
1. It should have provision for generating parking stickers for faculty 
2. It should have provision for designating parking spaces 
3. It should have provision for including parking sites  
 
Question Bank 
6. It should have provision for online question bank 
7. It should have provision for enrolling examiners in question bank 
8. It should have provision for online uploading of questions from offsite locations 
9. It should have provision for editing and validating questions 
10. It should have provision for generating question papers in sets with answer keys 
 
Recruitment 
1. It should have provision for online recruitment for different posts 
2. It should have provision for providing online recruitment forms 
3. It should have provision for accepting or rejecting forms 
4. It should have provision for searching candidates 
5. It should have provision for exporting a precise list with selected forms 
6. It should have provision for checking of eligibility by candidates 
7. It should have provision for generating admit cards 
8. It should have provision for displaying result 
 
Salary and Payroll 
1. It should have provision for setting salaries of all categories of employees 
2. It should have provision for setting the allowances for all categories of employees 
3. It should have provision for generating salary bill in the required format 
4. It should have provision for generating salary reports of different categories of employees  
5. It should have provision for modification of the salary and allowances. 
6. It should have provision as per leave rules of Central Government and vacations department. 
7. It should have online provision of leave records. 
8. It should have provision of GPF/ CPF/ NPS and others. 


--- Page 13 ---
 
Tender for Administration Software                                                              Tender No. -Admn/Tender/72/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
9. It should have provision for auto calculation of income tax.  
10. It should have complete payroll management system. 
 
10.1. 
Salary Pay Bill. 
Salary head 
Deduction 
Basic Salary 
Income Tax deduction 
AGP 
NPS 
NPA 
License fees  
D.A. 
Water charges 
HRA 
Any other deductions 
T.A. 
 
Any Other Allowances 
 
 
a) Pay Bill Attachments. 
 Tax Deduction Performa. 
b) DA Arrear – bill. 
c) NPS Detail. 
d) NPS Deduction. 
e) GPF Contribution. 
f) CPF & Other Deduction (Loan Advance). 
g) CGHIS Deduction. 
h) CGHIS Statement. 
i) Other Arrear –bill. 
j) Arrear Pay bill Schedules. 
k) Multi Months Pay in One Bill. 
l) Expenditure Statement 
m) Annual Salary Statements. 
n) Salary Slip. 
o) LPC (Last Pay Certificate). 
p) Pay Drawn Statement. 
q) Income Tax Returns (TDS) Details. 
r) Form 16A. 
s) NPS/GPF Statement. 
t) Salary Bank Transfer Voucher. 
u) Annual Increments. 
v) Employee’s Record. 
w) Leave Account. 
x) Staff Statement (With Photo). 
y) Partial Pay (Half Pay/ Without Pay Leave). 
z) Pay Bill for contractual employees. 
aa) Leave Encashment Date/V.No. From IFMS Bill Tracking Report. 
bb) Customized reports in Excel. 
cc) Bill/Reports convert to Excel file. 
dd) Data Backup Option. 
ee) Easy to Add/Modify Employees details. 
ff) Easy to Modify Allowances Settings. 
 
Space Allocation 
1. It should have provision for recording faculty space in the various buildings 
2. It should have provision for allocation of space in the various buildings of the institution 
3. It should have provision for addition of space as new buildings are constructed 
 
Sales 
1. It should have provision for allowing sales from hospital drug counters 
2. It should have provision for recording the sales proceeds  
3. It should have provision for allowing refunds 


--- Page 14 ---
 
Tender for Administration Software                                                              Tender No. -Admn/Tender/72/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 14 
 
4. It should have provision for allowing returns of sold goods 
5. It should have provision for deducting indent from central store 
6. It should have provision for catering to more than one sales counter in the institution 
 
Utilities 
1. It should have provision for allowing registration of various utilities of the institution 
2. It should have provision for recording time based usage 
3. It should have provision for recording utility bills with document upload 
4. It should have provision for recording bill payments 
5. It should have provision for getting account of utility expenditure 
6. It should have provision for utility budgeting. 
7. It should have provision for sending bulk text messages/ e-mails. 
8. It should have the provision for the applicant to see his/ her leave request status. 
9. It should have provision to generate sms/ text message when request is sent for approval to the 
concerned person.  
 
 
Administrative Officer  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        AIIMS, Jodhpur 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


