--- Page 48 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Hand Foot UV Phototherapy Device (Whole 
Body) 
 
Page 45 of 67 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Hand Foot UV Phototherapy 
Device (Whole Body) 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. 
Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ 
quotation clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the 
firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS for “Hand Foot UV Phototherapy Device (Whole Body)” 
 
Sl.no 
Specifications 
1 
US FDA /CE/BIS/ISO/ISI approved 
2 
Full body cabinet with a combination of 24 high-pressure NB UVB and 24 
UVA 100 watts lamps  
3 
5 UV protective goggles for patients and 5 UV protective goggles for 
doctors 
4 
Rapid start ballast/choke (without starter)  
5 
High gloss Aluminium Reflector inside the cabinet 
6 
Discrete observation UV Protective window (to see inside the chamber 
when treatment is on) 
7 
Desktop computer control with keyboard and mouse for user-friendly 
operation (easy to use &store the patient data, operator data, lamp usage 
data &other machine data, etc.) 
8 
Unit / Cabinet can be remotely located anywhere up to a convenient 
distance from the desktop computer control. 
9 
Software should have user accountability of all operators, tracking of 
patient data, lamps power output &usage hours information 
10 
Software should have a notepad for patient’s specific comments 
11 
Full body cabinet with rust-proof outer body, double door, open-top, 
space-efficient design, and stable platform. 


--- Page 49 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Hand Foot UV Phototherapy Device (Whole 
Body) 
 
Page 46 of 67 
 
12 
UV Transmitting acrylic lamp shields. 
13 
Intelligent lamp cooling system. 
14 
Built-in UV power meters &Integrated Dosimetry control system with UV 
Sensors 
15 
An auto-generated message warning for low lamp output, and calibration 
requirement (with facility for voice announcement) 
16 
Software with built-in treatment protocols, customizable, with automatic 
dosage calculation 
17 
Software should have a patient database with space for managing patient 
records 
18 
Spare timer controller (in order to use when computer controller is not 
working) 
19 
No extra charge for software update 
20 
Cabinet fitted with wheel/caster and can be fixed with stoppers 
21 
Built-in electric safety circuit system 
22 
Interior operating switch for lamp and fan control 
23 
Audio announcement for the operator as well as patient 
24 
Patient &lamps data can be maintained in the computer system &take 
back up on Pen Drive 
25 
Printable patient records (Printable reports including Device Data Report 
and Daily Summary) 
26 
Reliable cooling system. 
27 
Power requirement 4 KVA (when you switch on either UVA or NB UVB) 
(appropriate stabilizer to be supplied)- According to the requirement of the 
machine. 
28 
Electrical Specification 220-240 Volts AC (as per Indian / international 
electrical standard) 
29 
Warranty will be for a period of 05 years with 5 years CMC after the expiry 
of warranty including all the parts (excluding lamps) lamps should carry a 
warranty of at least 01 years along with a freeze in the pricing of lamps for 
5 years 
30 
To visit after 1 month of installation for queries 
31 
Minimum Unit Dimension in inches Width: 40, Depth: 40 &Height: 80 
inches (all approximately) 
32 
An on-site demonstration of equipment is mandatory, prior to approval. 
• 
Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description 
as per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item 
Description 
offered 
by 
Firm 
Deviation 
if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 50 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Hand Foot UV Phototherapy Device (Whole 
Body) 
 
Page 47 of 67 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. 
Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the 
TE document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years 
from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work 
from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & 
handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty 
period by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) 
basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty 
period. 
2. 
After Sales Service:  
After 
sales 
service 
center 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service 
should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the 
Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 
years from the date of supply. 
3. 
Training:  
4. 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ 
Indian Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and 
maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same 
will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical 
specification. 
5. 
Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment 
with Site Modification Work: 
a) 
The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ 
service /operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after 
satisfactory completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on 
yearly basis for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The 
supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer’s 
technical/ service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 
preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the 
CMC period 
b) 
The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of 
Tender Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the 
absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes 
and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
c) 
Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) 
The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank 
guarantee for 2.5% of the cost of the equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 
months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) 
There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) 
X 365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the 
downtime period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 


--- Page 51 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Hand Foot UV Phototherapy Device (Whole 
Body) 
 
Page 48 of 67 
 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) 
Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of 
the Bank Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 
 
Note 1:  
Tenderer’s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The 
tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it’s tender is liable to be ignored. 
 
Note 2:  
General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked for 
and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment 
to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety Standards IS-
13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 60601 is a part 
of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they 
should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety 
compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development 
Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance call. 
Note 3:  
Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management 
information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical 
training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at 
the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be required to train 
the institute personnel onsite as and when required. 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC 
period 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


