--- Page 17 ---
NIT No. AIIMS/R/CS/Gen.Sur./15/003/PAC. 
 
 
 
Seal &Sign of Bidder …………………………. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 17 of 19 
Annexure-I  
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR HIGH FREQUENCY ADVANCE 
ELECTROSURGICAL UNIT ESG-400 (THUNDERBEAT). 
 
1) Should be compatible for Laparoscopic and Open Surgery  
2) Should be compatible with existing Ultrasonic Generator USG 400 
3) Should have facility to deliver both ultrasonic and bipolar energy for simultaneous 
rapid tissue cutting and coagulation 
4) The high frequency unit should have Monopolar & Bipolar modes to cover all OR 
requirements  
a. Monopolar Cut Modes : 
i. Pure Cut for continuous cutting 
ii. Blend Cut for Continuous cutting with Coagulation 
iii. Pulse Cut Slow for Intermittent cutting with long coagulation 
iv. Pulse Cut Fast for Intermittent cutting with short coagulation 
 
b. Monopolar Coagulation Modes :  
i. Soft Coag for Soft and deep coagulation 
ii. Power Coag for Fast coagulation and dissection 
iii. Forced Coag for Fast coagulation 
iv. Spray Coag for Contact-free superficial coagulation 
 
c. Bipolar Cut Modes : 
i. Bipolar Cut for Continuous cutting 
ii. Saline Cut for Continuous cutting in saline 
 
d. Bipolar Coagulation Modes : 
i. BiSoft Coag for Soft coagulation (+/- Autostart) 
ii. Auto Coag for Soft coagulation with Autostop 
iii. Saline Coag for Coagulation in saline 
iv. Hard Coag for Clamp coagulation with Autostop 
v. Fine Coag for Fine coagulation 
vi. RF coagulation for deep tumor ablation with autostop 
 
5) Should provide simultaneous reliable hemostasis and transaction of up to 7mm 
vessels with a single instrument. 
6) Should have minimum lateral thermal spread which is not more than 1 mm  
7) Device should have dedicated seal and seal & cut mode by hand activation as well as 
foot switch without exchanging the instruments. 
8) Should have high resolution LCD and Touch Screen user Interface for fast and 
setup, operation and on screen diagnostics 
9) Should have onscreen warning display for generator overheating, generator 
software upgrade, hand piece error and instrument errors 
10) Should have a short boot time preferably less than 6 Seconds 
11) Should have built-in regulated fan 
12) Should have facility for software update vide a USB device 
13) Should have memory function with characters 


--- Page 18 ---
NIT No. AIIMS/R/CS/Gen.Sur./15/003/PAC. 
 
 
 
Seal &Sign of Bidder …………………………. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 18 of 19 
14) Should have 4000 times feedback control cycle per second 
15) Should have Fast Spark Monitor that ensures smooth and reproducible cutting in 
varying tissue (e.g., muscle & fat) 
16) Should have Automatic Saline Detection mode 
17) Should be supplied with Disposable patient plates  
18) Instrument recognition and automatic application of default settings for ease of use. 
19) Provision for automatic mist and smoke evacuation to maintain a clear laparoscopic 
view reducing delays associated with compromised visualization when combined 
with Co2 gas insufflator. 
20) The device should be FDA approved and/or European CE certified  
21) High Frequency device should have CF type Protection against electric shock 
22) The system should conform to the international standards EN (IEC) 60601-1, EN 
(IEC) 60601-2-2, EN (IEC) 60601-1-8 
23) Device should be supplied with following instrumentations: 
a) Advanced HF Generator with Foot Switch. 
b)  Communication Cables 
c)  Autoclavable Transducer with cable (1 piece) 
d)  5 mm caliber hand activated coagulating shears for laparoscopic 
surgery and capable of sealing blood vessels up to 7 mm diameter, 
shaft length of 35-40 cm and with an ergonomic handle (08pcs) 
e) 5 mm caliber hand activated coagulating shears for open surgery and 
capable of sealing blood vessels up to 7 mm diameter, shaft length of 
20-25 cm and with an ergonomic handle (02pcs) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


