--- Page 45 ---
                                                                      
                                                             Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/CCU/FNIRS/2023/59/GTE 
45  
 
 
 
 
SECTION-VII  
               Technical Specification for  Functional Near Infra-Red Spectroscopy 
Specification of Monitor for NIRS(Regional Oximetry) , Brain Function , Oxygen 
Reserve Index, Continuous Haemoglobin, Fluid Responsiveness Monitoring 
 
1. NIRS(Regional Oximetry) monitoring with following features 
a) Should use Near Infrared Spectroscopy and reflectance Pulse oximetry for accurate monitoring to 
tissue oxygen saturation in brain. 
b) Should provide differential analysis of regional to arterial oxygen saturation for reference 
.SPO2 
c) Should have numerical Display of Regional oximetry (rSO2), O3 ( Forehead Arterial Oxygen 
saturation), Spo2, .base ( diff between current rSO2 and user defined baseline), AUC Index ( to 
quantify depth and duration of patient stay below Rso2 alarm limit), Spo2 
d) Should provide graphical Trend display for regional Oximetry 
 
2. Monitor for Non invasive Monitoring of brain Function with 4ch EEG Regional Oximetry, Oxygen 
reserve Index, Continuous Haemoglobin, Fluid Responsiveness, Perfusion Index, Pluse Oximetry and 
Pulse rate in patients undergoing surgery. 
 
3. Brain function monitoring with following features 
a) Should provide 4 channel real time EEG simultaneously for continuous assessment of both sides of 
brain 
b) Should have continuous numerical display of patient state index (PSI) a processed EEG parameter 
to help clinician access patient response to anesthesia and depth of anesthesia. 
c) Should display easy to interpret Density Spectral array representing EEG Power and Bi 
Hemispheric activity including asymmetry. 
d) Should also have continuous numerical Display of Suppression Ratio, Artifacts, Spectral edge 
frequency (Right & Left). 
e) Should provide customizable Trend and views 
f) Should have streamlined design easy and quick to apply sensor with plastic disk. 
 
4. Oxygen reserve Index monitoring with following features 
A) Should provide non-invasive continuous monitoring of oxygen reserve index (ORI) in patient 
receiving supplemental oxygen to ensure safety of patients 
B) Should have trend display for ORI and have alarm facility to notify clinicians of changes in patients 
oxygen index 
5. Continuous Non Invasive Haemoglobin with following features 
a) Should be able to measure continuous Non-invasive Haemoglobin, Spo2, Pulse rate, Perfusion 
Index, Pleth variability and Oxygen Reserve Index through same single finger sensor 
b) Bedside monitor should have selectable Spo2 averaging Modes – 2,4,8,10,12,14 or 16 seconds & 
Sensitivity – APOD, Normal and Max 
c) Should display continuous Haemoglobin trend to enable clinician take quick decision 
6. Monitor should have Multi touch Backlit TFT LCD Colour Display Atleast 10” size with Adjustable 
Brightness. Monitor should be high resolution (1280 x 800 Pixels ) 
7. Should also have an integrated hand held monitor. This monitor should be detachable and usable 
as a portable independent monitor with inbuilt battery backup for atleast four hours. 
8. Patient monitor should have rotational colour touch screen with automatic change to horizontal 
or vertical view 
9. Patient monitor should have facility to customize display to see parameter, waveforms or trends 
patient monitor should have trend function with facility to select one or two parameters and move, 


--- Page 46 ---
                                                                      
                                                             Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/CCU/FNIRS/2023/59/GTE 
46  
 
expand or collapse parameter trend for real time analysis 
10. 
Should have facility store patient parametric data and display trend up to 96 hours at 2 
seconds sampling rate 
11. 
Should have user configurable display setting and alarms for patient parameters 
12. 
Should have Audible and visual alarms for High/Low Haemoglobin (SpHb), High/Low Spo2, 
High/Low pulse Rate, High/Low PVI, High/Low Oxygen reserve Index, Probe off, cable disconnects 
and low battery 
13. 
Display and Measurement Range 
 Total Haemoglobin (SpHb ) – 0-25 g/DI 
 Oxygen Reserve Index – 0.00 – 1.00 
 Oxygen Saturation (Spo2) – 0- 100% 
 Pulse Rate (PR) – 25 240bpm 
 Perfusion Index ( PI) – 0.02 – 20 5 
 Pleth Variablility Index – 0- 100 % 
14. 
Accuracy 
 Total Haemoglobin : 8-17 g/DI ACCRACY: +-1g/DI 
 Saturation range : 70 % to 100 % Accuracy: +- 2% 
 Pulse Rate : 25-240bpm Accuracy: +- 3bpm 
 Oxygen Reserve Index : 0.00 – 1.00 
Accuracy : >_ 85 % sensitivity and > 80% specificity to a PaO2 value < 150 mm Hg 
 Trending Regional Oxygen Saturation (Rso2) ARMS – 3 % 
 Absolute regional oxygen Saturation (Rso2) ARMS – 4 % 
15. 
Resolution 
 
Total Haemoglobin (SpHb) – 0.1 G/DI 
 
Oxygen Saturation (SpO2) – 1 % 
 
Pulse Rate (PR) – 1 bpm 
 
Perfusion Index (PI) – 0.01 5 
 
24 Bits at 250 samples per second- Depth of Sedation Monitoring 
16. 
Monitor should meet international quality and safety standards and should be USFDA and 
European CE approved product 
17. 
The vendor should quote price for sensors valid for atleast three years 
18. 
The patient monitor should be supplied complete with 
a) Sensor for continuous Haemoglobin, ORI, PVI, Spo2, PI – 10 nos. 
b) Sensor for regional Oximetry – 10 nos 
c) Sensor for Brain function monitoring – 10 nos 
19. 
Should be compatible for connectivity with patient safety Remote monitoring and 
Notification system. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


