--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/19/105/OT/B 
 
Page 19 of 25 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Specification for Multi-feature Electrosurgical Unit 
Sl. 
No. Item Descriptions 
 
 
1 
 
Technical specification of Multi-feature Electrosurgical Unit with Tissue-fusion & 
Smoke evacuation capacity: 
1. An integrated system of Electrosurgical generator with Monopolar, Bipolar, Bipolar 
Resection in Saline and Tissue-fusion/Vessel-sealing energy delivery features in a single 
generator. 
2. Maximum Output Power: 300 W or better 
3. The system should be micro-processor controlled which should identify the tissue type 
with impedance feedback on a real-time basis and adjust the output power to get the 
desired surgical effects on the tissue. 
4. Number of Electrosurgical Mode Outputs: System should have at least two 
monopolar outputs, one bipolar output and one tissue-fusion/vessel-sealing output. 
5. Energy Output Controls & Settings: 
A. Screen display of 7-inch or more (Touch Screen/ LCD display with soft keys/knobs)  
for Monopolar, Bipolar, Bipolar Resection in Saline and Tissue-fusion/ Vessel-sealing 
energy effect controls. 
B. Auto LCD Backlight adjustment for good visibility in operating room. 
C. Energy settings can be modified according to need. 
D. The system should have recall facility to recall the last setting used by the user before 
turning off the power. 
6. Minimum Energy Output Modes: 
A. “Monopolar CUT” Modes: 
i) PURE CUT: provides a clean, precise cut in any tissue with little or no haemostasis. 
ii) BLEND CUT: conventional blended waveform that provides slower cutting with 
simultaneous haemostasis. 
iii) SOFT CUT: precise and smooth cutting specifically for the use with wire or needle 
electrodes. 
B. “Monopolar COAG” Modes: 
i) SOFT/ CONTACT COAG: desiccates tissue at a relatively slower rate with deeper 
thermal penetrationtypically performed with a ball electrode. 
ii) FULGURATION/ FORCED PREP: coagulates tissue by sparking from the active 
electrode, through airto thepatient tissue. 
iii) SPRAY: non-contact surface coagulation with shallow penetration & the affected tissue 
area is larger than with the FULGURATION mode. 
iv) IMPROVED HAEMOSTASIS/ URO COAG: It should deliver modified energy for 
improved haemostasis; more efficient dissection & less tissue drag compared to traditional 
Coagulation Mode. 
C. Bipolar Output Modes: 
i) LOW/ MICRO COAG: It delivers low-voltage output for precise control of the amount 
of desiccation typically used with small-surfacearea instruments. 
ii) STANDARD/ MACRO COAG: It is a conventional bipolar output typically used with 
medium-surface area electrodes. 
iii) HIGH/ NEPTUN: Power remains constant over a widerange of tissue types and may be 
used for large electrodes. 
D. Auto Bipolar Mode: Automatically senses tissue impedance between the two bipolar 
electrodes with contact of any material, then uses the impedance information to 
automatically start or stop bipolar energy delivery. 
E. Bipolar Resectionin Saline Mode: 
I) Compatible with Bipolar Resectoscopes of standard companies for resection in saline. 


--- Page 20 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/19/105/OT/B 
 
Page 20 of 25 
 
ii) Selectable range of bipolar cut initiation. Maximum CUT power should be at least 
300W. 
7. Tissue-Fusion/ Vessel-Sealing mode features: 
A. With special hand accessories capacity to be used on arteries, veins, pulmonary 
vasculature, lymphatics & tissue bundles up to and including 7 mm in diameter for secure 
haemostasis and division. Fused vessel should be able to withstand more than 3 times of 
normal systolic blood pressure. Authentic certificate must be produced for the claim. 
B. Should provide precise energy delivery and electrodepressure to vessels for a controlled 
time period to achieve a complete and permanentfusion of the vessel lumen. System should 
be able to continuously monitor the degree of sealing of the tissue using tissueimpedance 
monitoring. Individual energy packets are sequentially emitted into the tissue in the form of 
HF pulses, until the desired degree of sealing has been reached andthe process is 
completed. 
C. Current should be optimized to prevent adhesions, carbonization of tissues and lateral 
thermal spread to adjacenttissue. 
D. The system should be able to seal vessels or tissue bundles faster than any conventional 
devices (preferably within 2-4 seconds). 
E. Should support open and laparoscopic hand instruments. 
F. The tissue-fusion/ vessel sealing hand instruments should have the user control 
mechanism so that the surgeon can decide for a repeat seal before actually cutting it or even 
not cutting it (No Auto-Cut). 
G. System should have 5mm open/laparoscopic tissue fusion & cutting electrical 
instruments with Maryland tip jaws fordissection of fine tissuesand faster operative 
procedure. 
H. System should have Haemostat type open tissue fusion & cutting electrical instruments 
with curved tip for dissection thick tissuesand faster operative procedure. 
I. Activation by both footswitch and hand control mode should be available for both in 
Open & Laparoscopic Surgery. 
8. Foot Controls: 
A. System should have separate monopolar, bipolar and vessel sealing foot pedals or 
having provision to use the same footpedal for bipolar and vessel sealing effects. 
B. Should have an option of enabling or disabling the footswitches. 
9. Patient Return Electrode Contact Quality Monitoring System: When the measured 
Contact Resistance exceeds the standard range of safe resistance or when the measured 
contact resistance increases above a threshold over the baseline, the alarm is activated and 
electrosurgical energy output is disabled for patient safety. 
10. Audio-Visual Indicators & Alarms: 
A. Should have system status indicators such as self-test, ready for use, ready for tissue-
fusion/ vessel sealing etc. 
B. Should have different visual indicators with audible activation tones for different energy 
mode settings. Activation tone volume should be user adjustable. 
C. Alarm for “patient return electrode monitoring system” error. 
D. System should have attached instruments status indicator. 
E. Audio-Visual indicator for Tissue-fusion Cycle Complete. 
F. Audio-Visual indicator for incomplete Tissue-fusion Cycle (Regrasp/ Reactivate). 
G. Should have system error indicator. 
11. The unit should have temperature sensing cooling system, which should operate 
automatically to protect generator from thermal damage. 
12. Upgradation facility: 
A. System should be updatable & upgradable by updating required software. 
B. System should have RS232/USB/Ethernet port or any other computer connectivity for 
on field software upgrades and serviceability. 
13. Connection to External Systems: 
A. Should have Interlink cable ports (RS232/equivalent ports) to provide to signal other 


--- Page 21 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/19/105/OT/B 
 
Page 21 of 25 
 
devices for integration. 
B. Should be compatible for integration with following external systems: 
i) Smoke Evacuation Unit (with automatic function synchronised with activation of ESU). 
ii) Argon Plasma Coagulator 
iii) Integration with existing integrated OR system, Karl Storz OR1™ installed in Urology 
OT of the institute. 
iv) Integration with Robotic Instruments. 
14. Should be compact and light weight, weighing less than 10 kg for installation on 
Operating Room ceiling mounted boom system. 
15. SMOKE EVACUATION SYSTEM: 
i). Smoke Evacuation Unit: Qty.01 
ii) Control features: 
A. Can be integrated with supplied Electrosurgical Unit (ESU) for automatic function 
synchronised with activation of ESU. 
B. Automatic start of Smoke Evacuation Unit with user selectable suction power 
synchronized with the activation of the ESU. 
C. Additional manual Foot switch activation/ deactivation feature. 
iii) Smoke Filter features: 
A. Should have UPLA standard filter. 
B. Filter-life monitoring display. 
C. Filter shelf life at least 25 hours or more. 
16. SMOKE EVACUATION ACCESSORIES: 
i). Smoke evacuator footswitch: Qty.01 
ii). Interlink cable to integrate with RF Generator Unit: Qty.01 
iii). Smoke evacuation filter (UPLA standard): Qty.05  
iv). Smoke Evacuation Pencil with 22mm (D) Evacuation Tubing: Qty.20 
v). Air hose for connection with Laparoscopic Trocar 10mm (D) x 250-300cm (L): Qty.20 
17. Input Power Requirement: 
A. Input Power: 220–240 VAC, Power Cable with 6A three pin plug. 
B. Backup Power: Should continue to operate normally within specifications with no errors 
or system failures whentransfer is made between Mains AC line and an emergency hospital 
backup power source during power failure. 
18. Environmental Parameters: 
A. Transport and Storage: Temp range: -10 to +60 degree C, RH range: 15% to 90%. 
B. Operation: Temp range: 10 to 40 degree C, RH range: 30% to 75%. 
19. System should be BIS/ European CE with four-digit certificate no./ US FDA 
approved for the intended use. 
 
20. Electrical Safety: 
A. Leakage Currents and Patient Auxiliary Currents (IEC 60601-1): 
i) Device must be tested for Touch Current, Earth Leakage Current, Patient Auxiliary 
Current & Total Patient Leakage Current under Normal Condition and Single Fault 
Condition (asdefined in IEC 60601-1).  
ii) It shouldmeet all pertinent clauses of IEC 60601-1 latest edition. 
iii) Testing certificate must be attached from a reliable standard testing laboratory for 
the supplied electrosurgical unit at the time of delivery. 
iv) Earth Leakage Current:  
-absolute upper limit of 500 µA (Normal condition).  
-absolute upper limit of 1000 µA (Single Fault Condition).  
v) Touch current: 
- absolute upper limit of 100 µA (Normal condition). 
- absolute upper limit of 500 µA (Single Fault Condition). 
vi) Patient leakage current: must comply to clauses of IEC 60601-1 latest edition. 
B. High Frequency Leakage (IEC 60601-2-2):  


--- Page 22 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/19/105/OT/B 
 
Page 22 of 25 
 
-It shouldmeet all pertinent clauses of IEC 60601-2-2 latest edition. 
-Testing certificate must be attached. 
C. Protection Class I Equipment (IEC 60601-1): 
- Accessible conductive parts cannot become live in theevent of a basic insulation 
failurebecause of the way in which they are connected to theprotective earth conductor. 
D. Application part Type CF Equipment/Defibrillator Proof (IEC 60601-1, IEC 
60601-2-2and equivalent standard): 
- Should have high degree of protection against electric shock regarding allowable leakage 
currents. Can be used for procedures involving the heart. 
21. Ingress Protection(IEC 60601-1 & IEC 60601-2-2): IP21 or better. 
22. Electromagnetic Compatibility (IEC 60601-1-2 and IEC 60601-2-2):  
- Should complies with the appropriate IEC 60601-1-2 and 60601-2-2 specifications 
regarding electromagnetic compatibility. 
23. Electrosurgical Unit Accessories: 
A. Monopolar Foot switch: Qty.01 
B. Bipolar Foot switch: Qty.01 
C. Tissue-fusion/ Vessel sealing Foot switch: Qty.01 
D. Universal active adaptor: Qty.01 
E. Monopolar accessories: 
i) Monopolar Cord for Laparoscopy instruments: Qty.02 
ii) Monopolar Cord for under water resection: Qty.02 
iii) Electrosurgical Pencils: Qty. 50 
iv) Electrosurgical Electrodes, Blade-tip: Qty. 50 
v) Electrosurgical Electrodes, Needle-tip: Qty. 10 
F. Patient Return Electrodes: Single use, corded patient return electrodes: Qty. 50 
G. Bipolar accessories: 
i) Bipolar cord for bipolar forceps: Qty.02 
ii) Reusable Bipolar Straight Forceps, 12-14cm, (Tip: 0.5-0.6mm): Qty. 04 
iii) Reusable Bipolar Bayonet-shaped Forceps, 20-21cm, (Tip: 0.5-0.6mm): Qty. 04 
iv) Reusable Bipolar Straight Forceps, 15-17cm, (Tip: 0.6-0.7mm): Qty. 04 
v) Reusable Bipolar Bayonet-shaped Forceps, 19-20cm, (Tip: 0.6-0.7mm): Qty. 04 
vi) Reusable Bipolar Bayonet-shaped Forceps, 22-23cm, (Tip:1.0mm): Qty. 04 
vii) Reusable Bipolar Bayonet-shaped Forceps, 19-20 cm, (Tip: 2.0 mm): Qty. 04 
H. Advanced Tissue-fusion Accessories (Open Surgery): 
i) Hand instrument for Advanced Tissue-fusion & Cutting, Shaft Length 200-230mm, Shaft 
diameter 5mm,Maryland Tip Jaws with blade, rotatable shaft, with a leverfor user 
selectable cutting facility, seal length 18-21mm, cut length 17-19mm, Hand Switching or 
Foot Switching activated: Qty.02 units if reusable with 10 no. disposable blades or Qty.12 
units if disposable. 
ii) Open Dissector/Tissue-fuser&Divider for advanced Tissue-fusion & Cutting, 
Haemostat-style reusable clamp, thick curved jaws with blade, with a lever for user 
selectable cutting facility: Qty.02 units with 10 no. disposable blades/ jaws with blade 
whichever is applicable. 
I. Advanced Tissue-Fusion Accessories (Laparoscopic Surgery): 
i) Hand instrument for Advanced Tissue-fusion & Cutting, Shaft Length 370mm, Shaft 
diameter 5mm, Maryland Tip Jaws with blade, rotatable shaft, with a lever for user 
selectable cutting facility, seal length 18-21mm, cut length 17-19mm, Hand Switching or 
Foot Switching activated: Qty.02 units if reusable with 10 no. disposable blades or Qty.12 
units if disposable. 
24. All equipment should be mounted on lockable four wheel based cart 
manufactured by the original equipment manufacturer (OEM). 
25. General Requirements: 
i) All quoted equipments, instruments & accessories must be from a single 
manufacturer. 


--- Page 23 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/19/105/OT/B 
 
Page 23 of 25 
 
ii) Along the Bid all the firms are required to submit copy of manufacturer catalogue 
with clear marking of each quoted item and catalogue No. with a highlighter to avoid 
discrepancy.  
iii) Warranty: Five years from the date of installation (including all spares and labour). 
iv) CMC:For 6th to 10th year, after expiry of warranty period(including all spares and 
labour). 
v) All firms should have supplied the quoted equipments & instruments to AIIMS/ PGI/ 
JIPMER/ SGPGI or other central institutes and should submit a certificate of satisfactory 
working from the concerned Govt. Hospital. 
26. Demonstration of Tissue-fusion/ Vessel sealing instruments if required during 
evaluation. 
27. All required quality &electrical safety testing certificates, brochures, user manual, 
service manual & safety checklists & required maintenance schedule must be supplied in 
original during installation. 
 
 
Instructions for Online Bid Submission: 
The bidders are required to submit soft copies of their bids electronically on the CPP 
Portal, using valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions given below are 
meant to assist the bidders in registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in 
accordance with the requirements and submitting their bids online on the CPP Portal.  
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained 
at: https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. 
REGISTRATION 
1) Bidders are required to enroll on the e-Procurement module of the Central Public 
Procurement Portal (URL: https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on 
the link “Online bidder Enrolment” on the CPP Portal which is free of charge. 
2) As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique 
username and assign a password for their accounts.  
3) Bidders are advised to register their valid email address and mobile numbers as 
part of the registration process. These would be used for any communication 
from the CPP Portal.  
4) Upon enrolment, the bidders will be required to register their valid Digital 
Signature Certificate  (Class II or Class III Certificates with signing key usage) 
issued by any Certifying Authority recognized by CCA India (e.g. Sify/nCode / 
eMudhra etc.), with their profile. 
5) Only one valid DSC should be registered by a bidder. Please note that the bidders 
are responsible to ensure that they do not lend their DSC’s to others which may 
lead to misuse. 
6) Bidder then logs in to the site through the secured log-in by entering their user 
ID / password and the password of the DSC / e-Token. 
 
SEARCHING FOR TENDER DOCUMENTS  
1) There are various search options built in the CPP Portal, to facilitate bidders to 
search active tenders by several parameters. These parameters could include 
Tender ID, Organization Name, Location, Date, Value, etc. There is also an option 
of advanced search for tenders, wherein the bidders may combine a number of 


