--- Page 11 ---
Tender for HIGH END CARDIAC MONITORS                                                                         Admn/Tender/37/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
High End Cardiac 
Monitors 
1. Patient monitor system should be of modular type and capable of 
monitoring adult, pediatric neonatal patients with touch screen user 
interface. 
2. Monitor should have 20” independent flat panel display. Should be 
capable of 8 traces display. 
3. Module rack / housing should be independent and shall be able to 
be placed near to the patient. 
4. Monitor must be capable of simultaneously monitoring the 
following parameters which should be present as standard: ECG, 
NIBP, 
SpO2, 
invasive 
pressures 
(4), 
temperatures 
(2), 
Capnography and cardiac output monitoring. 
5. Should be compatible with Cardiac output, EEG, and BIS. 
6. ECG should have capability for 3, 5 and / or 10 lead monitoring 
and should have built in arrhythmia monitoring on all leads. 
7. Inbuilt ST segment analysis and arrhythmia detection for all the 
leads should be possible. 
8. Haemodynamic and drug dose calculations should be available. 
9. Arrhythmia should be grouped based on classifications – and 
should show no of arrhythmias occurred. 
10. Respiration should be available with Cardio Vascular Artifact 
filter. 
11. OCRG should be available for monitoring neonates. 
12. ICP monitoring should be possible. 
13. Alarm parameter should flash red in the presence of high priority 
alarms (e.g. ventricular fibrillation and asystole) and flash yellow 
in the presence of medium or low priority alarms (e.g. noisy 
signal, etc.) 
14. 24 hours trend data should be displayed. 
15. All monitors including central station should have similar user 
interface for easy usage among all clinicians. 
16. Monitor shall provide the capability to interact with alarms at 
remote bedsides. 
17. Monitor shall provide the capability to receive and display real-
time waveforms, trended data and alarm status from other bedside 
or telemetry units on the patient monitoring network. 
18. Monitor shall provide the capability enter patient information at 
the bedside or central monitor. 
19. On-screen keyboard for entering this data is preferable. Should 
have USB ports to connect mouse, key board, bar code scanner. 
20. Alarm limit status (ON/OFF) must be indicated on-screen for each 
parameter and actual parameter 
21. Alarm settings must be displayed on-screen when alarms are on.  
22. Position of the displayed waveforms must be user configurable. 
23. Waveform color changing should be user configurable. 
24. Monitor shall permit the optional ability to receive and display 
30 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for HIGH END CARDIAC MONITORS                                                                         Admn/Tender/37/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page12 
 
 
 
 
information from other patient devices such as ventilators, infusion 
pumps and other standalone devices. 
25. All modules should be compatible with all monitors quoted. 
26. Bed to bed communication between the monitors should be 
possible without a central station. 
27. Networking to central station should be possible. 
28. Patient monitoring network shall use standard TCP/IP protocol and 
be capable of residing on hospital’s network infra-structure. 
29. Should be compatible with HIS and should be HL7 compliant. 
30. Monitor should have capability to accommodate remote viewing 
of real time waveforms through internet. 
31. Patient monitoring network shall be able to support up to 1,000 
monitoring nodes. 
32. Should be supplied with necessary accessories for adult, pediatric 
and neonatal accessories. 
33. Should have FDA certifications. 
Accessories and spares 
1. ECG / respiration: 5 lead ECG cable and lead wire set and 10 lead 
ECG cable and lead wire set per monitor 
2. NIBP: Adult: 10 sizes and Pediatric 5 sizes and neonatal, 1 size per 
monitor 
3. SPo2 Sensor: 10 Adult sensors with cable, 5 pediatric sensors with 
cable and 5 neonatal sensors with cable per monitor 
4. IBP: Include 10 nos of disposable pressure transducer with bracket 
and interface cable per monitor 
5. Temperature: Skin and nasopharyngeal probes per monitor. 
Central Monitoring Station for multi para monitor 
1. System should have minimum 16 beds capability. 
2. Central station should have 20” color display with 24 hours 
trends.. 
3. Should have drug dose and hemodynamic calculations. 
4. It should have possible to view information such as vital signs, 
alarm status, arrhythmia analysis, trended parameters, patient data 
etc for any selected bed from the central station. 
5. Should have separate computer keyboard and 4 channel thermal 
array recorder. 
6. Should have default alarm limits and customizable parameter 
settings. 
7. Central station should have full bed review capability. 
8. Central station should be able to be configured as a bedside 
monitor if required. 
Should have capability for HL7 interface. Should be capable of 
monitoring telemetry modules. All system should have FDA 
certifications. 


