--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Nephro/182/19/OT 
 
Page 18 of 23 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical specifications for Ultrasound machine 
A state of art fully digital, compact Colour Doppler Ultrasound machine is required for 
abdominal, vascular, paediatric, and echocardiographic applications with following 
specifications 
1. Unit should be able to give very high image quality advance technologies like 
compound imaging for better contrast resolution, tissue differentiation and edge 
detection 
2. Unit should be compact & durable; less than 5 kg in weight. It should be easily 
portable with battery backup upto 30 minutes (at least). 
3. The machine should be US FDA/ISO/European CE certified.  
4. It should have at least 55,000 digital channels for high resolution imaging. 
5. Acquisition rate of at least 1000frames per second. 
6. Imaging modes: 
 
2D 
 
M-mode 
 
Colour flow imaging 
 
Pulse Doppler 
 
Continuous wave Doppler 
 
Power Doppler  
7. The machine should have the facility for  
 
Volume display with surface rendering (transparency, brightness and 
lighting controls), X, Y, Z rotation capability, MPR view display, specialized 
algorithms and maps to maximize three dimensional display, Region of 
interest (ROI) trim tools on both volume and MPR views, slice control on 
MPR and volume displays.  
 
Performing distance, curved distance, ellipse, trace, volume and stack 
contour volume.  
 
Display as 1-up (full volume), 4-up (volume/MPR).  
 
Display of tick slice data and slice plane view of the MPR views. 
8. The machine should have facility for simultaneous dual/duplex/triplex mode 
display. 
9. Tissue harmonic imaging should be available on phased, linear and curved array 
transducers. Tissue harmonic imaging should be available in 2D, colour flow 
imaging, M-mode. 
10. The machine should have tissue harmonic imaging in power Doppler imaging 
mode for improved sensitivity and specificity in differentiating blood/agent from 
tissue. 


--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Nephro/182/19/OT 
 
Page 19 of 23 
 
11. The machine should have contrast harmonic imaging and should have 
optimization settings to detect the contrast agents. 
12. Machine should be capable of real time Compound imaging on linear, curved and 
mechanical volume arrays. The compound imaging should have at least 9 beam 
steered lines of sight. 
13. The machine should be equipped with hardware and software support for 
performing contrast enhanced ultrasound imaging. 
14. High dynamic range of 180 dB or more. 
15. The machine should have 256Grey shades (8 bit) or more. 
16. One touch image optimization should be available in 2D mode with one button 
automatic adjustment of TGC and Receiver gain and Compression curve based 
on the range of detectable tissue signals. 
17. There should be one button automatic adjustment of Doppler PRF, baseline, 
dynamic range and gain in Doppler mode. 
18. Pulsed wave Doppler should be available on all imaging transducers with 
adjustable sample volume size: 1.0- 2.0 mm (transducer dependent), 
simultaneous or duplex mode of operation, simultaneous 2D, colour Doppler, 
pulsed Doppler, high PRF capability in all modes including duplex and triplex 
and automatic adjustment of scale and baseline. 
19. Machine should support broad band/wide band probes spanning with frequency 
range from 2-17MHz (+1MHz).  
20. Technique /Coded excitation or Alternate technology should be available to 
improve penetration and recover more tissue information for greater details 
resolution at extended depths.  
21. Automatic Doppler analysis should be available with automatic real time and 
retrospective tracing of at least six of the following user selectable parameters: 
peak systolic velocity, end diastolic velocity, mean diastolic velocity, volume flow, 
time average mean velocity, time average peak velocity, resistive index, pulsatility 
index, systolic/diastolic ratio, acceleration/deceleration times.  
22. The machine should have cineloop review facility in individual: and mixed modes 
with memory upto minimum of 400 images and 10mins ds of Doppler/M Mode 
data. 
23. The machine should have facility of direct storage and retrieval of B/W and colour 
images (both frozen and cine loop) in the inbuilt hard disk drive. In built hard 
disk storage for images should be500GB or more. 
24. Support at least three transducers with universal ports allowing any transducer 
to be connected to any port. 
25. A high resolution fully articulating non interlaced flicker free, anti-glare, flat panel 
display of 19 inches or more, with articulating arm tilt and swivel facility. 


--- Page 20 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Nephro/182/19/OT 
 
Page 20 of 23 
 
26. Software package for measurement and calculation, provision for distance, area, 
volume and circumference 
27. Complete vascular, cardiac, and renal package should be available. 
28. Zoom facility (upto 6 times or more magnification) with high resolution results 
and pan capability in both real time and frozen images with facility of pre and 
post processing. 
29. The system should have CD-DVD and USB archival (DICOM and PC format) 
30. It should be DICOM (3.0 or higher version) ready with print, save, modality work 
list for connecting to PACS system. 
31. Unit should have a four caster design with central braking system. 
32. System should have provision for shear wave and strain based Elastography 
and contrast imaging on one probe. 
33. One UPS with 30 minutes for running ultrasound machine as well as printing 
back up time. A compatible colour laser printer of reputed make Canon/HP/Dell 
should be quoted separately.  
34. Price of each probe should be quoted separately.  
35. The unit should have the following electronic probes 
i. 
Broadband convex array transducer 2-5±1MHz, with biopsy guide. 
ii. 
Linear array transducer 5- 17 ±1MHz, with biopsy guideand [5- 
12]±1MHz50mm linear array transducer.. 
iii. 
Phase array transducer 2-5±1MHz. 
36. The unit should also have a 3D transducer 3-6 ±1MHz. 
37. Guarantee/warranty: 5 years should include whole equipment, UPS, laser 
printer, all probes, transducers, accessories, all auxiliary devices supplied with 
the unit. Free software upgrade(s) during the period of 10 years. 
38. CMC rates for 5 years including spare parts for whole equipment, UPS, all probes 
and accessories (including consumable of laser printer of 12 sets of 
cartridges/year) should be quoted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


