--- Page 45 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Metaphase finder system with fluorescence  
Page 45 of 67 
 
A list of Consignee is given in Section XIX. The goods mentioned at Part-I in this 
section are intended to be supplied to the following hospitals/medical institutes. 
However, order may be placed for any hospital/institute across India. 
 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Metaphase finder system with 
fluorescence with compatible accessories 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. 
Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ 
quotation clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the 
firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS for “Metaphase finder system with fluorescence” 
 
 
Metaphase finder system with fluorescence should include 1. Upright 
Fluorescence Microscope, 2. Cytogenetic Imaging Workstation Camera, 3. 
Karyotyping software, 4. Fluorescent In-situ hybridisation software,            
5. Report / Archiving Software, 6. Digital Workstation 
1.0  
Upright Fluorescence Microscope 
1.1 
Should be supplied with upright stand and should have transmitted light 
path with infinite optical system. 
1.2 
The microscope should offer a coaxial z-drive with coarse and fine focus. 
Fine focus knob on left and fine focus disk on right. The focus range 
should be 24 mm to quickly find the specimen focus. Microscope should 
include an adjustable focus stop. The coarse focus provides movements 
of 4mm/rotation, the fine focus comes with 400µm/rotation and with a 
graduation in micrometers (4µm). 
1.3 
The microscope shall provide an automatic mechanical shutter in the 
transmitted light path when fluorescence observation is used.  
1.4 
Microscope should have integrated light manager and an ECO Mode with 
6 Position encoded nosepiece 
1.5 
The reflector turret shall be manual, revolving (sliding), with 6 or above 
encoded positions 
1.6 
Light source: 100 W halogen lamp -  illumination for Transmitted light 


--- Page 46 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Metaphase finder system with fluorescence  
Page 46 of 67 
 
applications.   
1.7 
Objectives for Bright field and Fluorescence of magnifications: 4 
objectives 
5x (N.A:0.16), 10x (N.A:0.25), 40x (N.A: 0.75), 60/63x oil immersion (N.A: 
1.25). 
1.8 
Should have binocular phototube with reversed image with 100%-
0%/0%-100% splitting possibility between camera port and eyepieces. 
The inclination angle should be 30° at a field number of 23mm. 
1.9 
Fluorescence illumination with 100 W mercury lamp house with self-
adjusting 
lamp. 
Fluorescence 
beam 
path 
should 
be 
fully 
apochromatically corrected for high contrast fluorescence illumination.  
1.10 
Fluorescence Filters for DAPI, GREEN, RED/ORANGE, Triple band 
DAPI/FITC/TRITC and Aqua should be included  
2.0 
Cytogenetic Imaging Workstation Camera 
2 .1 
CCD Monochrome Camera :  
Minimum resolution 1280x1024, 12 bit, pixel depth of 6.45µ x 6.45 µm 
and exposure time between 20 µs and 300 s with global shutter, at least 
15 frames per second should be quoted.  
3.0 
Karyotyping software 
3.1 
The software should be highly accurate Artificial Intelligence / Deep 
Neural 
Network 
enhanced 
flexible 
karyotyping 
(or 
chromosomal 
assignment), available for all common human samples and banding 
patterns.  
3.2 
Should have Interactive/Automatic metaphase quality detection for 
automated metaphase separation.  
3.3 
The software should convert Metaphase to karyotype with single click in 
a second to ensure faster turnaround time. 
3.4 
Should have batch processing mode- software should be able to convert 
multiple metaphases to karyotypes with single click.  
3.5 
Should have precise Artificial Intelligence / Deep Neural Network assisted 
chromosomal orientation algorithm for all chromosome sizes.  
3.6 
Should have user defined automated and assisted complete workflows 
such as Interactive/Automated Artificial Intelligence / Deep Neural 
Network based removal of non-chromosomal objects and background 
reduction. Interactive/Automated Artificial Intelligence / Deep Neural 
Network based whole metaphase separation, including overlapping, 
touching and clustered chromosomes. Interactive/Automatic metaphase 
quality detection for automated metaphase separation.  
3.7 
Should have efficient interactive tools for manual correction of automated 
results, interactive and automated karyotyping of human and other 
species. 
3.8 
Should provide additional analysis interface within the same license 
key/dongle to ensure faster turnaround time.  
3.9 
Should have Unlimited UNDO and log operations to overcome human 
errors with time and date record of every processing steps.  
3.10 
The software should be able to perform one click separation of overlapped 
chromosomes. Interactive 
and automated 
Real time background 
correction and Chromosome separation. Keyboard shortcut keys for 
several functions like Chromosome separation (in case of over lapping 
chromosomes), image enhancement, background correction and contrast 
enhancement.  
3.11 
Chromosome arm ratio should be identifiable to define P and Q arms.  
3. 12 
The software should be able to perform interactive and automatic 
Classification based on built-in classifiers for G-, Q- and R-banding. 
Ideograms according to ISCN standard for 400, 550, and 850 bands. 


--- Page 47 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Metaphase finder system with fluorescence  
Page 47 of 67 
 
Additional captures to encompass all chromosomes of widely spread 
metaphases in one karyotype, Up to 26 images can be incorporated into 1 
to have one complete Karyogram in case of polyploids 
4.0 
Fluorescent In-situ hybridisation software 
4.1 
Should have extended focus image generation to have a very clear 
Fluorescence signal against clear dark background.  
4.2 
Should have user defined automatic processing functions significantly 
simplify the image enhancement immediately after the capture.  
4.3 
Should have Interactive and automatic integration time control for each 
color channel. Automatic and interactive background correction and 
thresholding for each color channel.  
4.4 
Should have Mask (exclude/include) function, Transient and permanent 
zoom, Presentation of individual colors, false colors, and gray levels, 
Annotation capabilities and Measurement functions.  
4.5 
Should have Provision to capture color images using RGB filters for 
stained samples/slides like H&E, Special Stains, IHC etc 
5.0 
Report / Archiving Software 
5.1 
Should be a dedicated software for report   generation, analysis,   
archiving and classifying with Institute logo or other related images. 
5.2 
Should perform scheduled backup and give notification if data is not 
getting saved.  
5.3 
Should have user defined report generation with graphic interface.  
Provision in software to extract statistical information of cases/reports 
like cases per year, results per year and samples per year.  
6.0 
Digital Workstation computer  
6.1 
Intel Core i7-10700 (8-Cores, up to 4.8GHz, 16MB, 16T, 65W) or higher  
6.2 
16 GB (2x8) RAM DDR4 or higher  
6.3 
Graphics card - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080 (10GB DP/HDMI)  
6.4 
Monitor 20” TFT or higher with 1920x1080 resolution  
6.5 
256GB PCIe NVMe (M.2 Class 40) SSD, Hard disk 4TB (3.5 inch 7200rpm 
SATA) with 1000W chassis  
6.6 
Original Window 10 Pro 64 bit  
6.7 
16X Max DVD +/- RW with Dual Layer Write Capabilities  
6.8 
Multifunction colour laser printer compatible with Window 10 
6.9 
3 KVA online UPS with at least 30 minutes backup for the whole system   
7.0 
General Conditions  
7.1 
Bids should be accompanied by full technical specification of the 
model/make offered. Price quoted should be inclusive of Comprehensive 
Warranty (Including all Spares, Accessories and Labor) for 05 years from 
the date of installation. Also, the bidders are requested to submit their 
price quote for subsequent 05 years Comprehensive Maintenance 
Contract (Including All Spares, Accessories and Labor).  
7.2 
Bidders should clearly indicate the make and model number of the 
offered item. The make and model should be verifiable from the 
manufacture’s official website. (Mandatory: include URL for the quoted 
instrument in the tender document) 
7.3 
The bidder should provide a list and full contact details of Government 
institutes who are users of the quoted model.  
7.4 
The bidder should clearly specify the availability, locations and address of 
after sales service for the quoted item.  
7.5 
Operational onsite training must be provided for the faculty members 
and technical staffs free of cost 
7.6 
Bidders should provide manufacturer’s authorization certificate for the 
quoted instrument  
7.7 
Should be FDA or CE or BIS approved product 


--- Page 48 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Metaphase finder system with fluorescence  
Page 48 of 67 
 
• 
Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description 
as per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item 
Description 
offered 
by 
Firm 
Deviation 
if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. 
Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the 
TE document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years 
from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work 
from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & 
handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty 
period by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) 
basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty 
period. 
2. 
After Sales Service:  
After sales service center should have trained personnel to troubleshoot 
complaints arising from the equipment. Service center should be available 
nearly the city of Hospital/Institutions/Medical College. Complaints should be 
attended properly, maximum within 48 hrs. The service should be provided 
directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the 
spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date 
of supply. 
3. 
Training:  
4. 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ 
Indian Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and 
maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same 
will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical 
specification. 
5. 
Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment 
with Site Modification Work: 
a) 
The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ 
service /operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after 
satisfactory completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on 
yearly basis for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The 
supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer’s 
technical/ service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 
preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the 
CMC period 
b) 
The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of 
Tender Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the 
absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes 
and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
c) 
Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 


--- Page 49 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Metaphase finder system with fluorescence  
Page 49 of 67 
 
d) 
The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank 
guarantee for 2.5% of the cost of the equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 
months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) 
There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) 
X 365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the 
downtime period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) 
Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of 
the Bank Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 
 
Note 1:  
Tenderer’s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The 
tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it’s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2:  
General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked for 
and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment 
to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety Standards IS-
13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 60601 is a part 
of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they 
should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety 
compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development 
Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance call. 
Note 3:  
Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management 
information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical 
training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at 
the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be required to train 
the institute personnel onsite as and when required. 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC 
period 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


