--- Page 17 ---
                                                                 Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/102/18/OT/A 
 
Page 17 of 23 
 
 
 
Annexure I 
Technical Specifications for Advanced Navigation system for Cranial & Spinal Navigation 
 
General specifications and terms 
 
All 
units/ 
items 
including 
accessories 
should 
have 
quality 
certificate 
such 
as 
BIS/ISO/USFDA/European CE certified.  
 
5 year warranty and 5 years CMC should be included with provision of supply of spare parts items for 
next 5 years. 
 
Principal Company should have registered Office and Service Network in India, preferably Central 
India for better service support. 
 
User manuals should be in English. Provision of trained manpower support for at least for initial 3 
months after installation or up to a period when the staff/technicians at AIIMS Raipur are trained in 
handling, storage and proper sterilization methods of supplied equipment has to be ensured by the 
bidder. 
 
Compliance statement should be submitted in a tabulated and point wise manner. 
 
Should have supplied navigation system and instruments to department of Neurosurgery at AIIMS/ 
PGI/ NIMHANS or reputed government institute of similar status and should submit satisfactory 
performance certificate from the institute. 
 
All firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender clearly marking the quoted items 
and number with highlighter. If necessary demonstration will be taken to ensure product quality. 
 
All items under particular serial number will be purchased together from single manufacturer. 
 
Product quality certificate required. 
 
Sr. 
no. 
Required Technical Specifications 
1. 
System Specification: 
1.01 
The system should be easy to set up, user friendly, intuitive and should work under 
Windows/Linux/ Unix operating system environment.  
The vendor should quote their latest model and high end model keeping in mind AIIMS as a 
teaching institute for future upgrades.  
The system should be available in dual cart /Single cart where the camera cart and monitor can   
be kept separate or in single cart where both the camera cart and monitor can be kept together.  
The system should also ensure Optimized placement of the carts in OT and Better OT workspace 
management. 
1.02 
It should have optical guided and advance wireless active/passive marker tracking. 
Electromagnetic navigation can be added feature available for future upgrade if required.  
1. The system should be capable of Pinless navigation using either optical /EM navigation 
technology.  
2. The system should have capabilities for head frame less neuro navigation surgery such as 
tumor resection suitable for adults as well as paediatrics without any compromise on 
sterility. 
3. The system should provide dynamic referencing so that registration is not lost even if 
magnet emitter and patient move. 
4. The Navigation module should be able to support cranial, skull base and Neurology 
surgeries. 
5. The factory calibrated navigable instruments should include flexible tip tracking. 
1.03 
The display should be full HD resolution (1920x1200) with minimum 21.5" widescreen one 
monitors. 
The second surgeon viewing monitor should be size of at least 26” to 30” Monitor/screen with 
high resolution (at least 1920 * 1200, 60 Hz).  
The system should also have the feature of navigation control from sterile with a viewable from 
the same company. 
 Both the monitors should be touch screen with capacitive touch.  
The navigation workflow should be controlled from any of the two monitors. 


--- Page 18 ---
                                                                 Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/102/18/OT/A 
 
Page 18 of 23 
 
1.04 
The system should be plug and play and system software should be user friendly wizard guided to 
control set up, registration and navigation procedure. 
1.05 
It should have rapid data transfer directly to the navigation station with the option of USB 3.0 
port for direct data import and also have direct and seamless integration with the hospital PACS 
system along with CD/DVD drive in navigation system 
The system should have inbuilt CD/DVD driver for loading of patient data by CD, DVD, 
dedicated USB ports  and wifi  enabled for Data import and export. 
1.06 
The system should identify new instruments for tracking using the passive/active universal 
tracking system. 
1.07 
The system must have dynamic referencing so that registration is not lost even if the camera or 
patient moves.  
1.08 
It Should be HIPPA compliant including authentication, accountability log and automatic log-off 
features 
System  have password protection in the home screen/first screen. 
1.09 
The navigation system should be operable with/ without keyboard or mouse. The System should 
have instruments to control navigation from sterile field. It should also be provided by Keyboard 
and Mouse for both the Surgeon cart and Main cart 
1.10 
The camera should have 360 degree articulating arm for rotation of camera to 360 degree and to 
position the camera in any desired angle and elevation. 
1.11 
It should be capable of  DICOM viewing which allows standalone as well as clinical use of 
DICOM images (CT, MRI etc) to be viewed as per the surgical and clinical need of the planned 
Neurosurgical procedure 
2. 
Cranial Navigation Specifications: 
2.01 
The system should have pre-operative planning using the DICOM images for pre-operative 
Neurosurgical planning or preoperative planning in the navigation cart. 
2.02 
The system should allow DICOM images in Axial, Sagittal or Coronal planes should be 
reconstructed as 3D images and advanced cranial planning can be done on any plane and should 
be adapted to all planes automatically 
2.03 
The system should be capable of doing registration without using fiducials. 
System should have facility to acquire intra-operative landmarks to restore the original 
registration just in case the registration is lost during the procedure  
The Navigation system must have point as well as surface or skin contouring registration with 
accuracy prediction system. System should have facility for marker less registration. 
2.04 
The system should have the feature of automatic 3D tumor model building and automatic 3D 
anatomical landmarks building with blood vessels and other structures; Trajectories for all 
Cranial procedures including trans nasal approach. 
2.05 
The system should allow patient registration in both supine & prone position. 
2.06 
The system should display of a trajectory pathway, inline and probe eye view along with 
Guidance views, planned (virtual) endoscopy or craniotomy and safety margin . 
Look ahead view capability to show the images at 1mm to 20mm with customized increments of 
1mm for  the 2D images in front of the probe.  
2.07 
The Probe should have capability to show images at 0mm-300mm in front of it (tool tip 
extension) The virtual tip should be differentiated from the real tip by color 
2.08 
The system should have sub-millimetric patient accuracy ideal for deep seated Cranial biopsies; 
at the same time the system should also have the accuracy verification/ prediction system in-built 
in the system. 
2.09 
Screenshot and live navigation video recording feature for documentation purpose with recording 
facility inbuilt or should be provided separate in the system from 30mins -45mins for recording of 
videos for presentation .  
2.10 
It should have universal instrument adapters with active/passive markers to allow tracking of any 
existing rigid hospital instruments like drills, bipolar, knife, Awl, Probe, endoscopes. Should 
calibrate both length and diameter. 
2.11 
Calibration of existing rigid hospital instruments should be done automatically. System should 


--- Page 19 ---
                                                                 Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/102/18/OT/A 
 
Page 19 of 23 
 
have automatic Verification of the instruments for better accuracy.  
The system should support factory calibrated navigable shunt stylet or should be supplied with 
navigable shunt probe with max diameter of 1.2 mm and it should give live feedback on the tip 
position of the shunt stylet. 
2.12 
The system should be supplied with frameless biopsy. 
2.13 
It should include the Frameless biopsy system that should allow online tracking of biopsy needle 
according to pre-planned trajectory 
2.14 
The frameless biopsy system should include sterilizable, wireless & pre-calibrated alignment 
array. The system should support frameless biopsy and pre-calibrated navigable biopsy needle 
should navigate till the target and should display actual position of the biopsy needle 
2.15 
Vendor to provide 20 numbers of pre-calibrated disposable biopsy needle with the instrument 
2.16 
The system should support Pinless surgeries and the necessary attachments for the same should 
be quoted. 
2.17 
System should be supplied with 2 sets of registration Instrumentation for Cranial for sterility 
purpose. 
2.18 
The system should have inbuilt UPS system for power back up in both/Single carts or separate 
UPS should be provided for a back of at least 15mins. 
3. 
Spinal Navigation Specifications: 
The application should be able to memorize multiple surgeon preferences for each procedure. 
3.1 
The system also  should be ready to be integrated with Intraoperative Imaging devices like 
Intraop CT's, Intraop MRI's, O arm etc 
The spine application should be a unified spine application which should comprise of 3D spine 
(Spine Navigation with Spine CT data) and virtual fluoroscopy navigation for spine. 
3.2 
The C arm integration kit should be provided for 9'' and / or 12'' c arms 
System should have capability to be integrated with 2D and 3D C-Arm of commercially available 
vendors with facility of virtual fluoroscopic navigation for spinal applications compatible with 
2D  and 3D C-Arm 
3.3 
The system should have an interactive planning of trajectories 
3.4 
The Probe should have capability to show images at 0mm-300mm in front of it (tool tip 
extension). 
The virtual tip should be differentiated from the real tip by color wedge or similar layout should 
come as virtual extension for deformity procedure planning especially for PSO and PCO. 
 System software should also have ability to demonstrate reverse virtual extension to simulate 
guide wires. 
The system should have exhaustive set of spine instruments, dedicated trackers and navigable 
AWL. 
3.5 
The system should have exhaustive set of spine instruments, dedicated trackers and navigable 
AWL, Probe and Taps, Navigated Screwdrivers. 
The system should have separate reference frame for Cervical procedures with separate Cervical 
taps and drill guides. 
The system should come with Universal Drill Guide and also have provision for navigating other 
third party navigable instruments  
Along with regular Spine instruments, system should navigated tactile instruments also for better 
access and ease of use for doctors. 
The system should have dedicated navigated MIS instruments along with Navigated PAK or 
equivalent needles and Nerve monitoring and Navigated enabled PAK or equivalent needles.  
The system should also additional navigated instruments for performing Revision surgeries under 
navigation.  
The system should at least have factory calibrated image guided jamshedi needle.  
3.6 
Navigation instruments should also have Radiolucent Spine Reference Clamp/spine reference 
frame designed to use intraoperatively to reduce artifacts in Intraoperative navigated surgeries. 
3.7 
The system should allow AP, Lateral and Oblique shot to register the patient with accuracy 
verification system 


--- Page 20 ---
                                                                 Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/102/18/OT/A 
 
Page 20 of 23 
 
3.8 
The system should have screenshot storage function for documentation purpose 
 
 
System should have ability to show virtual picture of screw while navigating screw driver during 
screw placement on 2D images and 3D model 
4.0 
 
 
The Navigation System Should be able to be integrated with navigation enabled microscopes 
from  Zeiss , Leica . 
The microscope interface should be such that the navigation system can track microscope’s focal 
point & trajectory plan. The microscope interface should give heads up display. 
5.0 
Consumables for navigation  for 100 cases to be supplied along with system 
6.0 
The system should have 8GB RAM for faster processing of Images with 1TB internal memory or 
external device to be provided of equivalent space (At least 250 GB internal memory) 
7.0 
The system should have 8GB RAM for faster processing of Images with 1TB internal memory or 
external device to be provided of equivalent space (At least 250 GB internal memory) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


