--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Portable Colour Doppler Ultrasound Machine 2D ECHO                        Admn/Tender/02-3/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Portable Colour 
Doppler 
Ultrasound 
Machine 2D 
ECHO    
 
1. The system must be fully digital technology equipment  
2. System must be offered with abdominal and thoracic ultrasound 
imaging, Echocardiography and should be upgradeable to TEE 
Imaging. 
3. The System should not weigh more than 10 kgs.  
4. System must be offered with a minimum of 200000 digital 
processed channels per image frame or 128 physical channels or 
advanced equivalent technology. Technical data sheet should be 
enclosed in technical bid to support the number of channels on the 
systems. If not mentioned Please attach a letter from manufacturer 
along with the technical bid clearly stating the dynamic range of the 
offered system. 
5. Convex probe should be with either single crystal technology or 
purewave technology or high density for excellent Image quality on 
Difficult to image patients. Please mention the above technology 
used in the transducer. System offered with normal transducers on 
convex are liable for rejection. 
6. System must be offered with a minimum 12 inch High Resolution 
Flat Panel Display monitor.  
7. System 
must 
be 
offered 
with 
frequency 
compounding 
facility/Equivalent Technology. Processing technology in technical 
bid should be highlighted. 
8. System must be offered with needle visualization tool to enhance 
the presentation of the needle without degrading the surrounding 
tissue. 
9. System must be offered with Speckle Reduction Imaging to remove 
speckles and clutter artifacts 
10. Should have the state of the art Transmit Real Time Compound 
Imaging Technology with Multiple transmitted lines of sight, 
wherein Multiple Coplanar Images from different viewing angles 
are obtained and combined into a single compound Image at real-
time frame rates for improved visualization. This should be 
demonstrated in convex, linear and endocavity  probes. 
11. System must be offered with a very high dynamic range of at least 
170 db (±10%) to pick up subtle echoes. Dynamic range in db must 
be clearly mentioned in the technical quote. If not mentioned Please 
attach a letter from manufacturer along with the technical bid clearly 
stating the dynamic range of the offered system. 
12. Frequency processing facility for the transducers should be 1 - 15 
MHz This must be available without the need for frequency 
switching. 
13. System must be offered with Eight-slide physical pot control 
adjustment of TGC curve. 
14. Independently selectable gain Control in Lateral plane. (Better 
technology can also be offered). 
15. Triplex Imaging should be standard on the system. 
16. System must be offered with a 2D frame rate of at least 750 
frames/second. Acquisition frame rate should be clearly mentioned 
in the technical quote If not mentioned Please attach a letter from 
manufacturer along with the technical bid clearly stating the 
dynamic range of the offered system. 
01  


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Portable Colour Doppler Ultrasound Machine 2D ECHO                        Admn/Tender/02-3/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. Must be offered with a single button control for automatic 
optimization and adjustment of TGC and Receiver Gain to achieve 
optimal uniformity of image quality and faster scans. This should be 
demonstrated to the users during technical discussions. 
18 System must be offered with Enhanced Tissue Harmonic Imaging 
should be standard on the system. This should be based on a real – 
time digital signal storage and phase cancellation technique to 
enhance axial and Contrast resolution. 
19. The should have minimum hard 80GB disk drive space 
20. System should have extensive image management capability 
including thumb nail review, Cine loop editing etc. 
21. System should have facility to transfer images to an integrated CD 
writer/USB ports, without any interfacing. 
22. Print – Should have direct connectivity to printer for printing 
images. 
23. System should be ICE Compatable. 
24. The system must be US-FDA certified 
 
System Must Be Supplied With the Following Transducers 
1.  Wide-band linear array transducer with 15.0–6.0 (±2) MHz 
Imaging Frequency for Intraoperative, vascular, musculoskeletal, 
nerve block, small parts, and pediatric patients 
2. Wide-band hockey stick- linear array transducer with 13.0–5.0 
(±1) MHz Imaging Frequency for Peripheral vascular, small parts, 
musculoskeletal, nerve blocks, superficial thoracic/pleural, needle 
guidance 
3. Wide-band phased array transducer with 5.0–1.0 (±1) MHz 
Imaging Frequency for Adult and paediatric cardiac, abdomen, 
OB/GYN, thoracic/pleural 
4. Wide-band convex array transducer with 5.5–2.0 (±1) MHz 
Imaging Frequency for Abdomen, OB/GYN, hip, spine, bladder, 
conventional musculoskeletal. 
 
System should be supplied with the following peripheral devices 
 
1. Thermal B/W Printer. 
2. Dockable cart must have at-least 3 Imaging universal active probe 
ports with electronic switching facility from key board without 
probe adapter. 
 


