--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Image Guided Navigation System                                                               Admn/Tender/44/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Image Guided 
Navigation 
System 
1 Navigation System for ENT 
 The System should be easy to set up, user friendly, 
intuitive and should work under Linux / UNIX / Windows 
operating system environment. 
 The system should have Optical Tracking technology 
along with Electromagnetic Tracking option. 
 The system should have facility of keeping optical 
camera and viewing system together or separately to 
allow optimal use of O.T space, The System should have 
two monitors, one for the surgeon and the other for the 
OT/Technical staff. 
 The Surgeon Monitor should be high resolution (1920 x 
1200, 60 Hz) with a viewable size of 24” widescreen or 
higher 
 The systems should be plug & play with user friendly 
system software to control set up, registration and 
navigation.   
 It should be capable of performing multiple types of 
registration in less than three minutes. 
 Improved camera designed with greater field of view, a 
long camera handle, and laser pointer for easier 
positioning and aiming 
 It should have total surgical control in sterile field on a 
fingertip with a touch screen monitor/or optical mouse. 
 It should have provision of Rapid data transfer directly to 
the navigation station with the option of CD-RW/DVD-
ROM combo-drive and USB 2.0 port for direct data 
import as well.  
 Should be connectable with OT monitor with appropriate 
cable. 
 The navigation system should be operable with or without 
keyboard and mouse. 
 The Software should be versatile and should support 
Functional Endoscopic Since Surgery (FESS) procedure, 
complex cases such as Coronal flaps and Lateral Skull 
base procedures and simultaneous tracking of multiple 
instruments, at least three. 
 The 
System 
should 
be 
supplied 
with 
patient 
tracker/marker and Custom sterilization tray, which 
should be autoclavable/reusable. 
2 General Software/Application Specification 
a) The system should have complete ENT and skull base 
surgery, navigation and its application package. 
b) Display of predefined trajectory pathway in line and 
probe views. The software fuses axial, coronal and 
sagittal image sets of different modalities ( CT & MRI ) 
c ) It should have universal instrument adapters with makers 
to allow tracking of any existing hospital instruments like 
drills bipolar, knife, probe, microdebrider and endoscopes 
Calibration of existing instruments should be done 
automatically ( if, applicable). 
3 Cranial Application 
a)  Should have user friendly Cranial application software 
01 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Image Guided Navigation System                                                               Admn/Tender/44/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
with Tumor and Frameless Biopsy software applications 
built-in the system 
b)  Should have facility for marker less registration 
c)  The navigation system should have point as well as 
surface registration with accuracy prediction system 
d)  It should have universal instrument adapter tracking 
system with active & passive option 
e)  The system should include a frameless biopsy system 
with needles 
f)  The system should the option of interfacing with all major 
microscope systems 
g)  The navigation system should have the option of 
hardware & software for stereotactic surgery including 
functional stereotactic procedures. The software should 
re-orient the scan images along the AC-PC plane. The 
stereotactic system should be adaptable to major frames 
like Leksell and CRW 
h)  The system should have 3D graphics capability and 
software to merge CT & MRI images 
i)  Look ahead view capability to show the images at 1mm 
to 20mm (increments of 1mm) in front of the probe 
j)  The navigation software should be able to correlate with 
pre-operative MR/CT images. These images should have 
view side by side or overlaid 
k)  The cranial software should be capable of advanced 
visualization of the cortical surface, skull, vessels and 
ventricles 
4 All the instruments, tracker,/marker should preferably be 
Autoclavable.  
a)  Registration probe 
b)  Straight probe 
c)  Straight suction 
d)  70 degree curved suction  
e)  90 degree curved suction 
f)  Osteum Seeker 
g)  Sterlisation tray 
h)  Head frame-kit tracker/markers, pad, adhesive, FESS 
tracker 
i)  The virtual tip should be differentiated from real tip by 
color/dotted lines. 
j)  The system should have registration with accuracy 
prediction system. 
k)  The system should warn the surgeon by color 
change/audible signal when approaching the critical 
areas/the system should have dynamic visualization of 
distance to target point and intra-operative landmarks or 
The system should have still photographs storage function 
as well as continuous video recording for documentation 
purpose. 
With 
appropriate 
cables/ 
adopter 
and 
connections for laptop and existing medical monitor 
5 Cart/Movable trolley for housing should have a storage 
capability. 
6 The company must have at least five successful ENT 
installations in India and list of the same should be 
supplied. 
7 There should be facilities to upgrade the system to be 


--- Page 13 ---
Tender for Image Guided Navigation System                                                               Admn/Tender/44/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compatible with PACS system. 
8 Demonstration of navigation system is must to the 
satisfaction of user. 
9 Proper training OT technical staff by the company person. 
10 European CE and US FDA Certification 
 


