--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Intraoperative Mobile Ultrasonography 
Admn/Tender/01/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Intraoperative 
Mobile 
Ultrasonography  
Intra-operative mobile ultrasonography is used in neurosurgery 
for brain tumor removals, evaluation of hydrocephalus, 
endoscopic intra-ventricular surgeries and selected spinal cord 
tumors. "Inherently stereotactic nature" of ultrasonography in 
combination with Neuronavigation compatibility is highly 
useful in neurological surgeries. The system should offer 
advanced functions that can be exploited in many different 
clinical situations.  
 
Basic System Architecture  
✓ System architecture should be able to support High 
definition mode that provided in standard function. That mode 
should provide Clear image to reduce artifact such as multiple 
echoes and to improve spatial resolution and contrast resolution. 
✓ The System should support high quality ultrasound with 
clearly defined technologies combined to offer a diagnostic 
ultrasound system with unprecedented performance, achieving 
advanced beam formation and sophisticated image processing. 
✓ System should be Capable of Taking preferably `Multilayer 
Technology 'probes. And minimum acceptable quality of probes 
are allowed to quote is the 'Matrix' one.  
✓ Capability to incorporate Electronic Convex, Linear, and 
Phased Array technology probes is must with Frame rate more 
than 400 frames/sec.  
✓ System should have compatibility with Neuro- Navigation 
System.  
✓ The System Should have advanced Contrast Imaging 
Package  
✓ System should have special Beam signal processing 
technology.  
✓ System should have minimum of 12 Bit A/D Converter.  
✓ System should have minimum dynamic range 270db.  
✓ System should have High density zoom functions Pan Zoom 
and HI zoom.  
✓ System should have Pan Zoom & Hi Zoom display 
magnification 8 times, display format change in flip flop, 
horizontal, vertical and rotation.  
✓ System should have minimum scan depth of 40 cm.  
✓ System should have Compounding of 5 — 20 deg with 
increment of 5 deg. 
✓ System should have Speckle Reduction Imaging in convex, 
Linear & Phased array probe with user selectable value helps in 
Contrast resolution.  
✓ Virtual Convex imaging should be available in linear probes. 
✓ All radiology probes should have minimum 30 sets of 
selectable frequencies for the best customised image quality  
✓ System should support coded scanning Technique.  
✓ System should Contain Automatic optimization which 
adjusts TGC, B mode gain, baseline, PRF& Doppler gain.  
✓ System Should have Dual Doppler Technique in both 
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Intraoperative Mobile Ultrasonography 
Admn/Tender/01/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
convex and linear.  
✓ System should have Automatic Doppler tracing.  
✓ The system should have selectable beat auto tracing  
✓ Doppler velocity measurement should be up to minimum 
8m/sec in Radiology probes  
✓ System should contain Fine flow function.  
✓ System should have accumulation mode in color to 
demonstrate the minimum perfusion  
✓ System should have Sub preset settings registered for each 
application max 4 set of preset for easy switching between same 
applications.  
✓ System Should have in-Plane Switching Technology Square 
Monitor for better contrast resolution.  
✓ System should be upgradeable to Elastography which can 
also be done with normal Convex and linear probe.  
✓ System Should Have 10.4-inch touch pane. All 
measurements and annotations should be available in 
touchscreen  
✓ System Should Support with 100 Sets of presets.  
✓ System should have 8 times Zoom/magnification.  
✓ Fully integrated 3D option in craniotomy transducers  
Software and Color modes  
System should be able to incorporate  
✓ Omni Directional M Mode with 3 Cursors both in real 
time & on frozen image in all the probes, with M Mode 
cursor rotation of Complete 360 Degree, system should have 
provision of getting M-mode image from the stored B-mode 
image. 
✓ System should be with facilities of Color Flow, Power Flow, 
Directional Power flow& High spatial & temporal resolution 
color flow (fine flow).  
✓ User should be able to choose 6 different frequencies in each 
probe (B-mode) E, this change in frequency should be displayed 
in the monitor.  
✓ System should have Auto IMT.  
✓ System should have wide View with B-Mode, power flow 
& Directional Color flow.  
✓ System should have PW Doppler, HPRF, CW. Doppler  
✓ In Color flow imaging, user should be able to change the 
frequency  
✓ System should allow user to take 3D image using routine 
convex probe  
✓ Free hand 3D should be available in both convex and linear 
probe with color flow.  
✓ Fine flow function- Color Flow imaging function that can 
display blood flow information in a high spatial and temporal 
resolution.  
✓ Cine Memory- B mode max 19,000 frames. M/D Modes 
Max 300 seconds, ODM 150seconds.  
✓ Should have high speed data transfer between Cine Memory 
and Hard Disk  


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Intraoperative Mobile Ultrasonography 
Admn/Tender/01/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
✓ Should be able to switch on color flow with Speckle 
Reduction on.  
✓ System should allow us to take 10 pair distance 
measurement at a time on a frozen image.  
✓ System should support Baseline Shift and angle correction in 
both real time and after freeze.  
✓ System should be able to adjust sample length and sweep 
speed in both real time and after freeze.  
✓ System should have minimum sample length of 0.5mm  
✓ System should have Dual Dynamic Display.  
✓ System should have a display angle width of max 6 steps.  
✓ System should have Biopsy guide. System should have dual 
elasto mode.  
✓ System also should have Real time biplane mode.  
✓ System Should be upgradeable to Elastography.  
✓ Biopsy guide line mode should be available with 
Elastography mode. 
 
Data Management Capabilities 
 
The system should have the following data management 
capabilities like  
✓ Line data and image data storage  
✓ Hard disk capacity of 500 GB or more for on board storage 
of image and clips  
✓ Archiving to USB/CD/DVD option  
✓ Still images in DICOM, Bmp, Tiff, Jpeg formats  
✓ Image acquisition in Real time  
✓ High speed data transfer Cine loop  
✓ To store measurement data in Hard disk apart from Image 
storage.  
✓ DICOM Network communication, confirming to DICOM 
Service class  
 
Measurement and Analysis packages  
The system should be capable of measuring the following 
parameters  
✓ Cardiac Analysis.  
✓ TDI Power flow mode.  
✓ Strain & strain rate imaging.  
✓ Vascular Analysis.  
✓ IMT (Intima Media Thickness) Measurements.  
✓ Report Functions — Cardiac, Obstetric, Gyne, Vascular, 
IMT (Intima Media Thickness), Urological and abdominal.  
 
Measurement and Analysis packages  
✓ System should have Tissue Adaptive Technology for 
adjustment of sound speed.  
✓ System should have Needle Emphasis technology for biopsy 
needles.  
✓ System should be compatible to finger grip intraoperative C 


--- Page 13 ---
Tender for Intraoperative Mobile Ultrasonography 
Admn/Tender/01/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shaped probes.  
✓ System should be compatible to dedicated intercostal biopsy. 
✓ System should be compatible to Transesophageal probes.  
✓ System should be compatible to Linear 4D probe.  
✓ System should be compatible to Centre biopsy Convex probe 
with dedicated centre biopsy adapter.  
✓ System should be compatible to T shaped Intraoperative 
probe. 
 
Probes  
The following Probes  
✓ Intraoperative Convex probe with (10.0-4.0 Mhz) frequency 
range, 65 Degrees with Puncture Adapter for Craniotomy 
applications.  
✓ Intraoperative Phased array sector probe with (8.0-3.0 Mhz) 
frequency range, 90 degrees with Puncture Adapter for Neuro 
Burr Hole applications.  
 
Other Important Functions   
✓ System with three probe connector and one dummy port for 
probe connector.  
✓ System should have minimum 17-inch monitor with smart 
touch panel below.  
✓ System should have 4 swivel casters for excellent mobility. 
✓ System monitor should be hinge rotatable.  
✓ System along with cart should be compact and height 
adjustable.  
✓ System should have internal capacity max 500 GB.  
✓ System should be able to store 72,000Images. 


