--- Page 17 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/19/66/OT 
 
 
Page 17 of 20 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical Specification 
Sl. No. 
Item Descriptions 
1 
Technical specification of USG with Colour Doppler System for Urology 
procedures: 
 
A. Should have High Resolution imaging for clinical needs and for intraoperative uses 
such as partial nephrectomy etc. 
B. Should have a 19" or more flat panel monitor. 
C. Should have speckle reduction technology for enhancing tissue margins for better    
anatomical visualization and to improve better organ anatomy from different angles. 
D. Should have facility to connect at least two electronic Transducers. 
E. Should have Automated Mode Adjustment for high resolution B-mode image. 
F. Should have facility to compensate the motion related imaging artifacts. 
G. Should have DICOM Capabilities. 
H. Transducers should have programmable start and stop buttons. 
I. Control panel should be sealed for easy cleaning and disinfection. Keyboard should be 
spill proof.  
J. The whole machine should not get damaged by fumigation process done for OT 
sterilization. 
K. The System should be supplied with integrated stand with height adjustable 
ergonomic mechanism with control panel & with lockable castors for easy mobility. 
L. Control panel Should be illuminated for easy access. 
M. Should have an internal hard drive to store images at least of 500GB capacity. 
N. CD/ DVD writer and USB Flash memory drive should be the part of the system. 
O. Should be of latest generation quad beam digital technology. 
P. Imaging Modes: System should have following modes: 
[I] B-mode 
[II] M-Mode 
[III] Colour Doppler 
[IV] Power Doppler 
[V] Pulsed Wave Doppler 
[VI] Tissue Harmonic Imaging 
Q. The following transducers are to be supplied along with the scanner: 
[I] 2-6MHz Convex Array abdominal transducer with an autoclavable biopsy 
attachment. Contact surface should be 60 x 10 mm or more. 
[II] 6-12MHz Transrectal transducer with simultaneous biplane imaging facility to 
visualize, sagittal as well as transverse planes of prostate gland. The same transducer 
should have an endfire array for scanning the apical areas of the prostate during prostate 
biopsy & nerve sparing laparoscopic radical prostatectomies. Transducer should 
compatible with standard sterilization methods like, immersion, ETO and Sterrad. A 
biopsy attachment for side fire as well as endfire arrays to be supplied. 
[III] 5-10 MHz Laparoscopic four-way deflectable transducer which can be used through 
normal laparoscopic ports (10-12 mm) with a biopsy facility to be supplied. Contact 
surface should be 30 x 5 mm or more. Probe should be compatible with standard 
sterilization methods like immersion, ETO and Sterrad. Compatible biopsy attachment 
should be supplied. 


--- Page 18 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/19/66/OT 
 
 
Page 18 of 20 
 
[IV] 6-12 MHz multi frequency linear transducer with angle independent velocity 
measurements for vascular, small parts, testes & penile scans should be provided. 
System should be able optimize Doppler parameters automatically. Contact surface 
should be 45 x 10 mm or more. 
R. The provided system should be compatible for future upgradation for use of a 
transducer compatible with da Vinci robot for robotic assisted partial nephrectomies. 
S. All Instruments should be BIS/ European CE with 4-digit notified body no./ US FDA 
approved wherever applicable.  
 
Instructions for Online Bid Submission: 
The bidders are required to submit soft copies of their bids electronically on the CPP Portal, using 
valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions given below are meant to assist the bidders in 
registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in accordance with the requirements and submitting 
their bids online on the CPP Portal.  
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at: 
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. 
REGISTRATION 
1) Bidders are required to enroll on the e-Procurement module of the Central Public Procurement 
Portal (URL: https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on the link “Online bidder 
Enrollment” on the CPP Portal which is free of charge. 
2) As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique username and 
assign a password for their accounts.  
3) Bidders are advised to register their valid email address and mobile numbers as part of the 
registration process. These would be used for any communication from the CPP Portal.  
4) Upon enrolment, the bidders will be required to register their valid Digital Signature Certificate  
(Class II or Class III Certificates with signing key usage) issued by any Certifying Authority 
recognized by CCA India (e.g. Sify /  nCode / eMudhra etc.), with their profile. 
5) Only one valid DSC should be registered by a bidder. Please note that the bidders are responsible 
to ensure that they do not lend their DSC’s to others which may lead to misuse. 
6) Bidder then logs in to the site through the secured log-in by entering their user ID / password 
and the password of the DSC / e-Token. 
SEARCHING FOR TENDER DOCUMENTS  
1) There are various search options built in the CPP Portal, to facilitate bidders to search active 
tenders by several parameters. These parameters could include Tender ID, Organization Name, 
Location, Date, Value, etc. There is also an option of advanced search for tenders, wherein the 
bidders may combine a number of search parameters such as Organization Name, Form of 
Contract, Location, Date, Other keywords etc. to search for a tender published on the CPP Portal.  
2) Once the bidders have selected the tenders they are interested in, they may download the 
required documents / tender schedules. These tenders can be moved to the respective ‘My 
Tenders’ folder. This would enable the CPP Portal to intimate the bidders through SMS / e-mail 
in case there is any corrigendum issued to the tender document.  
3) The bidder should make a note of the unique Tender ID assigned to each tender, in case they 
want to obtain any clarification / help from the Helpdesk.  


