--- Page 17 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Biochemistry/351/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 17 
 
 
Upon the successful and timely submission of bids (i.e. after Clicking “Freeze Bid Submission” in the 
portal), the portal will give a successful bid submission message & a bid Tender No. : ................................. 
summary will be displayed with the bid no. and the date & time of submission of the bid with all other 
relevant details. 
 
 
The bid summary has to be printed and kept as an acknowledgement of the submission of the bid. This 
acknowledgement may be used as an entry pass for any bid opening meetings. 
 
ASSISTANCE TO BIDDERS 
 
 
Any queries relating to the tender document and the terms and conditions contained therein should be 
addressed to the Tender Inviting Authority for a tender or the relevant contact person indicated in the tender. 
 
 
Any queries relating to the process of online bid submission or queries relating to CPP Portal in general may 
be directed to the 24x7 CPP Portal Helpdesk number 0120-4200462, 0120- 4001002. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specifications for Automatic Nucleic Acid Extraction System (One): 
1. An automatic system for extraction of contamination free DNA, RNA and total nucleic acid based on 
magnetic bead-based chemistry. 


--- Page 18 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Biochemistry/351/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 18 
 
2. System should be capable of Extraction of Cell-free DNA (ccfDNA) from human plasma samples, sera 
samples. viral total nucleic acid (RNA and DNA) from serum, plasma. 
3. System should work in stand-alone mode and/or PC controlled mode. 
4. System should be capable of processing 16 or more samples in per run. 
5. System should not use tips and liquid suction.  Instrument should not involve any liquid transfer step to 
avoid sample cross contaminations. 
6. Elution: Elution should be heated with provision of 30-100 µl or better. 
7. On equipment Processing Time: Less than 60 minutes. 
8. Should have in-built UV sterilization. 
9. Should have pre-programmed methods for the kits for various sample types. 
10. Equipped with bar code reader facility. 
11. Should have LCD/tablet display panel and alarm for malfunction/errors. 
12. Kits and labware sufficient for extraction of 480 each of RNA & DNA from cells and FFPE tissue should 
be provided with the system (and should have at least 1-year expiry date). 
13. Kits sufficient for Quantitation of following samples should be provided with the system-- dsDNA and RNA 
Quantitation Kit. 
14. Price of individual reagents and labware for extraction of RNA & DNA from cells, whole blood and FFPE 
tissue should be quoted with the system. The price of 480 DNA & RNA extractions each (including reagents 
and labware) from cells and FFPE tissue would be taken into consideration for price comparison. 
15. System should be integrated with fluorescence based nucleic acid quantitation system. 
16. Equipment should be supplied with all the necessary hardware, software, cables,Online UPS, etc. to ensure 
complete functioning of the unit. 
17. Price quotations for all consumables to extract, quantitation of DNA and RNA should be provided with 
instrument for RC. 
18. System should have at least 3 installations in government institutions of India and provide user list with 
contact details of the quoted instrument. 
19.  Free training of the faculty and technicians to handle instrument and software efficiently. 
20.  Brochures to be submitted for technical evaluation. If required demonstration of instrument to be provided. 
21.  Suitable UPS with required KVA to be provided for smooth uninterrupted functioning. 
22. The bidder quoting for instrument should provide a list of all the existing/ required consumables like 
reagents, chemicals, controls, calibrators, diluents etc with their costs. 
23.  Freeze the rates of reagents, controls, calibrators, diluents, and consumables for 5 years for compatible 
functioning and quality reports of results of diagnostic parameters. 
24. Warranty for 5 years. CMC for next 5years. Maintenance & support for 10years. 
25. The vendor shall have in-house or access to equipment facilities similar to that is to be supplied and should 
be able to arrange for site visits for carrying out testing on standards and samples to verify the technical 
specifications and performance of the equipment by a committee constituted for this purpose by the All India 
Institute of Medical Sciences, Rishikesh. 
26. The vendor should have adequately factory trained and skilled manpower to carry out the installation, 
commissioning, testing and application support with regard to the equipment supplied.  
27. The vendor should have factory trained and skilled manpower for periodic maintenance and prompt service 
support within 12 to 24 hours for breakdown calls in India. 


--- Page 19 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Biochemistry/351/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 19 
 
28. If the repair is delayed for more than 48 hours vendor should provide standby diagnostic support for 
uninterrupted diagnostic service till the breakdown instrument is made functional. 
29. Any specific/ special prerequisites required (with respect to infrastructure, electrical points, water supply, 
furniture, slab etc.) for installation of the quoted instrument to be listed clearly. 
30. Purchase orders of previous supplies as Benchmark to be provided. 
 


