--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Image Guided System 
  
 
                                            Admn/Tender/106/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Image 
Guided 
System  
Image Guided System is required for precise localization of intracranial 
or spinal structures. It is required for precise craniotomies and tumor 
localizations, placements of catheters or working sheaths in the 
ventricles, identifications of intracranial vessels, biopsies of deep seated 
lesions, functional surgeries (for neurological and psychiatric diseases) 
and fixations of spine at all levels including Cranio-Vertebral Junction. 
It works in cohesion to other investigative modalities like MR images, 
CT scans and fluoroscopy. It increases patient safety with regards to 
neurosurgical procedures and spinal instrumentations.  
 
General System Specifications.  
 
a) The System should be easy to set up, user friendly, intuitive and 
should work under Linux / Unix / Windows operating system 
environment.  
b) The system should have facility of keeping optical camera and 
viewing system together or separately to allow optimal use of 0.T 
space, The System should have two monitors, one for the surgeon 
and the other for the OT/Technical staff or vice versa. 
c) The Surgeon Monitor should be high resolution (1920 x 1200, 60 
Hz) with a viewable size of 27" widescreen or higher and the 
display should be visible at angles at least up to 80° 
d) It should have hybrid tracking technology with active and passive 
instrumentation.  
e) The system should have the option of upgrading to electromagnetic 
Navigation Module should be able to support Cranial and Skull 
base surgeries. 
f) The System should have the options of both Flat Emitter and Side 
Emitter to support the workflow of the surgeries. 
g) System should allow pinless surgery such as tumor resection, shunt 
placement etc for adult as well as pediatrics without any 
compromise on sterility., 
h) The navigation system must have dynamic referencing 
i) The system must have USFDA and CE approval and the quoted 
model must have at least 10 successful installations in India which 
are more than 3 years old. 
j) System should have Wi-fi connectivity for connecting to PACS 
system for image transfer  
k) System should have inbuilt firewall and antivirus security for cyber 
security. 
l) Easy access to storage for accessories and instruments 
m) System should have password security for software access.  
 
Cranial Application:  
1. The System should have self-descriptive software interface which 
allow you move quickly through the all cranial procedures 
workflows and to give you easy access to system-wide tools for 
common features. System should allow selecting tasks related to 
procedure as per user preference. 
2. The system software should have ability to design customized 
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Image Guided System 
  
 
                                            Admn/Tender/106/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
surgeon profile. 
3.   Should have facility for fiducial marker-less registration. 
4. The system should have ability to import pre-op examination using 
CD/DVD/PAC/USB system.  
5. The navigation system should have point as well as surface 
registration with accuracy prediction system. It should also allow 
combination of point and surface registration techniques for better 
accuracy.  
6. It should have universal instrument adapter tracking system with 
passive option.  
7. The system should include a frameless biopsy system with navigable 
needles. 
8. The System should have ability to Create and edit multiple surgical 
plans.  
9. The patient reference frame of optical technology should have 
options to do functions like magnify the images, go to next or back 
window on software workflow, take a screen shot, to change the 
screen layout and to respond the command prompt in case to operate 
the system in sterile field when no one is present on staff cart.  
10. The navigation system should have hardware & software for 
stereotactic surgery including functional stereotactic procedures. The 
software should re-orient the scan images along the AC-PC plane. 
The stereotactic system should be adaptable to major frames like 
Leksell and CRW.  
11. The system should have 3D graphics capability and software to 
merge CT & MRI images.  
12. Look ahead view capability to show the images at lmm to 15mm 
(increments of 5mm) in front of the probe.  
13. The system should have Virtual Projection option with adjustable 
width and length of the probe order to get better trajectory 
understanding.  
14. Every instrument should have facility to be compatible with both a 
right and left handed surgeon.   
15. The navigation software should be able to correlate with pre-
operative MR/CT images. These images should have view side by 
side or overlaid.  
16. The system should have ability to draw brain, tumor, vessels & 
ventricles as in 2D images and 3D model. Software should have easy 
and advanced options which help build models of user choice. 
17. Software should have streamlined interface to import and process 
diffusion-weighted 
MRI 
scans 
and 
enables 
routine 
of 
implementation of DTI processing.  
18. Interactive fiber tracking and output tracts to navigation system.  
19. Software should fuse fMRI activation maps into the software and 
viewed 3D model in Navigation  
20. Software should have video recording and snapshot capture feature 
to capture the navigation screen. 
  
II. Spine Application  
a. The Spine Application should be a unified Spine Application which 
should comprise of 3D Spine (Spine Navigation with Spine CT 
Data) and Virtual Fluoroscopy Navigation for Spine. 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Image Guided System 
  
 
                                            Admn/Tender/106/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b. The Application should be able to memorize multiple surgeon 
preferences for each procedure 
c. There should be a wireless control from the sterile field in form of 
surgeon mouse or touchscreen capability 
d. It should be able to do a customized setup and automated 
functionality check 
e. It should have universal instrument adapter tracking system with 
passive option for tracking existing instruments in the department 
f. The system should have image guided spinal instruments like short 
drill guide, Awl/Probe/Tap system with straight or T-handles option 
g. System 
should 
have 
Navigable 
Integrated 
Inter-body 
instrumentation. 
h. Transfer of spine exams to the navigation system should be possible 
with USB stick.  
i. The System should have Navigation instruments for Minimal 
Invasive Spine Procedure with minimally invasive clamps, iliac 
referencing etc. 
j. The System should have Navigable instruments for treating upper 
spine with light weight reference frame and range of taps, drill bits, 
drill guide along with Cannulated and non Cannulated taps for upper 
spine 
k. The System should interface with Nerve Integrated Monitor 
available at Neurosurgery Department while accessing pedicle with 
pedicle access needle.  
l. The System should have an automatic registration function with a 
navigation compatible C-Arm, which should be supplied by the 
vendor  
m. Spinal navigation package should allow the application of region 
mapping and pre op screw planning n. Software should have 
capability to merge CT and Fluoroscopic images for Navigation. 
n. Software should automatically identify new instruments for 
tracking.  
o. Five year AMC and CMC as per policy of AIIMS Jodhpur.  
 


