--- Page 48 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Handheld ICG Fluorescence System 
 
Page 45 of 69 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Handheld ICG Fluorescence 
Imaging System. 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. 
Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ 
quotation clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the 
firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS for “Handheld ICG Fluorescence Imaging 
System” 
1. Video Processor and Illuminator (VPI) – 01 unit 
 
The VPI video processor and illuminator shall be able to provide the VIS 
(visible) and NIR (near-infrared) illumination to the surgical endoscope via a 
flexible light guide simultaneously 
 
The VIS light source shall be consisted of light emitting diode array 
 
The NIR light source shall be consisted of NIR laser diode array 
 
The VPI shall be able to generate simultaneous real-time HD video color and 
ICG fluorescence images as an overlay in the same image 
 
NIR light source shall be triggered by the button on the camera 
 
Video output signals: 2 HD-SDI, 1 DVI 
 
Output HD format: 1080i59.94, 1080p59.94 
 
Picture elements: 1920 x 1080 
 
The output must be at least High definition or higher 
 
The device shall be able to generate and display 4 different modes of images on 
the monitor simultaneously: White Light mode, Black and White Fluorescence 
mode, near infrared and visible overlay mode, Color-segmented Fluorescence 
mode 


--- Page 49 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Handheld ICG Fluorescence System 
 
Page 46 of 69 
 
 
Should comply with below safety standards:  
o Electrical safety:  
o Type of protection against electric shocks:  
o Degree of protection against electric shocks:  
o Laser class 
o Radio frequency emission:  
o Harmonic emissions:  
o Embedded Laser Source  
 
Accessible near infrared radiation Should be 
o Acceptable divergence 
o Wavelength: 805nm-835 nm  
2. Full HD Portable Handheld Imager – 01 unit 
 
Preferably CMOS HD sensor assembly 
 
Resolution: 1080P 
 
Frame rate: 60fps 
 
Working distance: 10 - 40cm 
 
Aspect ratio: 16:9 which can display captured images in widescreen monitor 
without any signal conversion 
 
The imager should have illumination ports to visually define FOV extent for 
the operator and ensure adequate illumination of anatomy irrespective of 
lighting conditions. 
 
The imager should be able to use at ambient room lighting immune to 
ambient room lighting, which means room lights can be turned on during 
imaging 
 
The imager has to be supplied with bed-mount arm to avoid fatigue of 
operator for long-duration procedures. 
 
The imager has to be supplied with sterile drape so that it can be placed in 
the surgical field without contamination. 
 
The imager shall have multiple buttons for quick functions and setting 
purpose 
o buttons for focusing the image 
o A button to toggle between VIS and NIR 
o A button to toggle between different modes of NIR 


--- Page 50 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Handheld ICG Fluorescence System 
 
Page 47 of 69 
 
o A button to call for menu functions 
o Basic functions including turning camera light on and off, white 
balance, screen capture and recording can be done using the buttons 
on the camera 
3. High Resolution Medical Grade Monitor- 01 unit 
 
26 Inch or more LED surgical display  
 
Resolution of 1920 x 1080 
 
Should have DVI, and HDMI inputs 
 
Aspect Ratio 16:9 
 
Should meet European CE or USA FDA approval standards 
4. High-definition Medical Video Recorder 
o Should have provision to record the images and video sequences in OT. 
o Should be compliant to Medical standards 
o It should support wide range of recording resolutions 
 
1920 x 1080 (30Hz / 29.97Hz) to 640 x 480: Undiluted 
recording resolution 
 
1921 x 1201 (Resize to 1728 x 1080): Supported Input 
resolution 
o It should have multiple HD & SD inputs/outputs 
o Should have still image recording format of jpeg and video format of 
MPEG-4  
o Display should be at least 3.5” LCD 
o It should support recordable devices like USB Flash Drive, USB Hard 
Drive, Internal hard drive of 500 GB 
o Should be FDA approve Class 1 device 
o Should be from the OEM 
The above-mentioned systems should be provided by below mentioned 
accessories: 
1. Articulating Arm - 01 unit 
 
This arm is used to hold and position the camera head as per the surgical 
requirements 
 
This should have components to enable fixation to the OT table and ICG 
camera/ imaging head:  


--- Page 51 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Handheld ICG Fluorescence System 
 
Page 48 of 69 
 
 
The table clamp provides an attachment point to the operating table side rail. 
Accepts and holds the column of the main arm in position and allows for full 
range of rotation. 
 
The Main Arm provides three-point positioning of the imaging head into the 
surgical field 
 
The imaging head holder Connects to the distal end of the main arm to provide 
an attachment point for the imaging head 
 
The arm should be made up of metal and must be reusable after autoclaving/ 
other sterilization modes  
2. ICG ( Indocyanine Green): 100 unit 
 
ICG contains not more than 5.0% sodium iodide 
 
ICG is a sterile, water soluble, tri carbocyanine dye with a peak spectral 
absorlasma or blood at 800-810nm of near infrared light range 
3.  Drapes for hand held imager: 50 Unit 
4. Monitor stand  
5. Trolley for set up 
6. Cover for set up 
General  
1. All the above equipments should have USFDA and European CE and should 
be enclosed compulsorily 
2. Spares and consumables should be available for a period of at least 5 years 
and more after the expiry of the guarantee/ warranty period 
3. The principles must give a certificate if the supplier/ vendor is changed during 
the course of guarantee/ Warrantee period  
4. The principles would be responsible for the upkeep/ maintenance of the 
quote/ supplied equipment, besides honoring all the terms and conditions of 
the CMC/ AMC in letter and Spirit 
5. The firm must attach the list of installations and also provide performance 
certificate in last 5 years from central govt/ state government/ reputed private 
hospitals 
6. System configured application specific educational video tutorials shall be 
provided as standard with the system 
7. All the accessories should preferably be from the original equipment 
manufacturer 
8. Should provide 5-year CMC 
9. Details of the service outlet in India to render services during 5 years warranty 
period 


--- Page 52 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Handheld ICG Fluorescence System 
 
Page 49 of 69 
 
10. 
All repair calls to be attended to within 48 hours. 
11. 
Machine downtime should never be more than a week. The dealer shall 
provide a ‘standby machine’ in case the machine downtime due to repairs is 
expected to be more than 30 days as the patient services should not be 
affected. 
12. 
Installation, Commissioning and Training 
a) The equipment and all accessories should be installed, tested and 
commissioned at the department of Surgical Oncology, AIIMS, 
Mangalagiri free of cost. 
b) The supplier must train the technical staff and faculty of the institute, 
regarding all the operators available on the system. 
• 
Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description 
as per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item 
Description 
offered 
by 
Firm 
Deviation 
if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. 
Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the 
TE document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years 
from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work 
from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & 
handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty 
period by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) 
basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty 
period. 
2. 
After Sales Service:  
After 
sales 
service 
center 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service 
should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the 
Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 
years from the date of supply. 
3. 
Training:  
4. 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ 
Indian Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and 
maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same 
will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical 
specification. 
5. 
Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment 
with Site Modification Work: 
a) 
The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ 


--- Page 53 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Handheld ICG Fluorescence System 
 
Page 50 of 69 
 
service /operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after 
satisfactory completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on 
yearly basis for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The 
supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer’s 
technical/ service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 
preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the 
CMC period 
b) 
The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of 
Tender Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the 
absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes 
and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
c) 
Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) 
The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank 
guarantee for 2.5% of the cost of the equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 
months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) 
There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) 
X 365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the 
downtime period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) 
Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of 
the Bank Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 
 
Note 1:  
Tenderer’s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The 
tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it’s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2:  
General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked for 
and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment 
to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety Standards IS-
13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 60601 is a part 
of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they 
should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety 
compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development 
Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance call. 
Note 3:  
Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management 
information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical 
training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at 
the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be required to train 
the institute personnel onsite as and when required. 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC 
period 
 


