--- Page 16 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Gen. Med./19/08-04/OT 
Page 16 of 21 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
 
Technical specification for Portable Colour Doppler Ultrasound Unit; 
 
A state of art fully digital, compact Colour Doppler Ultrasound machine is required with following 
technical features: 
 
1. Unit should be able to give very high image quality with advance technologies like compound 
imaging for better contrast resolution, tissue differentiation and edge detection, equivalent to high 
end cart based systems. Please specify the technology.  
2. Unit should be compact, durable & less than 5 kg in weight. 
3. Imaging modes of Real time 2D, Color Doppler, Power Doppler, Pulsed wave Doppler, 
Continuous wave Doppler must be available. 
4. System should have both online (Read) as well as offline(Write) zoom facility  
5. System must have fast start up to scanning in less than 30 seconds from off condition, for use in 
critical care environment and emergency field situations.  
6. System should support transducer technologies like phased array, convex, linear & TEE format.  
7. The system should have a broadband architecture with an operating frequency of at least 1 to 15 
MHz 
8. Cine memory should be available on all operating modes.  
9. The system shall process a dynamic range that is at least 165db. The system must display at a 
maximum depth of 35 cm. 
10. The system must have dedicated calculation packages for cardiac, Vascular & Ob/Gyn 
measurements. 
11. The offered unit must have Flat LCD/ TFT monitor of at least 12 inches with Anti glare coating 
and flicker free image. 
12. Alphanumeric soft keys backlit and splash resistant keypad with easy access scans controls, 
facility to sanitize the system keyboard to avoid cross contamination.  
13. The system must have the ability to function by AC/DC or battery power with the same degree of 
functionality, the battery life (run time) shall be al least 2 (Two) hours, this need to demonstrate.   
14. The system must have archive capability for storage & retrieval of images and clips. It should have 
atleast 2 USB slots, which allow for direct sharing of images (JPEG) and clips (AVI) to a PC.  
15. Unit & transducers must be rugged, resistant to breakage & damage on fall/hit so as to withstand 
busy & field situations.  
16. The system must have in-built memory of at least 16 GB for storing Patient data & studies. 
17. The system shall support the all DICOM functionality, Storage, Print, and Work List, also ready to 
connect to PACS. 
18. System should have both European CE and US FDA quality certification. 
 
Transducers & other accessories to be supplied as standard:   
 
1. 4-8 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency broadband Phased array transducer for Pediatric/Neonatal  
abdominal, Pediatric/Neonatal Cardiology applications 
2. 5-10 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency, broadband linear array transducer for vascular, venous, 
small parts, musculoskeletal, Lung, nerve imaging with less than 40mm size. 
3. 1-5 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency broadband Phased array transducer for abdominal, Cardiac, 
Lung & OB applications. 
4. 4-8 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency broadband Phased array transducer for abdominal, neonatal 
Cardiac, Lung & OB applications. 
5. A trolley must be available to store and/or transport the system. 
6. Triple Transducer Connector with electronic switching facility to toggle between transducers. 
7. B/W Thermal printer 
8. Probe should be supplied with biopsy docked with on screen needle guide. 
 
 
 


