--- Page 18 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Radiology /289/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 18 
 
PROJECTOVERVIEW 
This document solicits proposals from qualified Bidders with sufficient experience in the 
design and production of Radiology PACS (client based cluster architecture solution with web based 
functionality 
also 
available) 
as 
well 
as 
the 
installation, 
user 
training, and on-site maintenance and repair of all equipment components and subsystems 
related to the Archiving and Display of images created by diagnostic radiology imaging 
equipment. Said Experience is to include: 
Expertise in configuring, installing and fine tuning a database management system, data 
server and archive media subsystem(s); 
Expertise in configuring, installing, and applications programming to insure image 
quality and utilization acceptable to each of the radiologists; 
Expertise in interfacing all components of the proposed subsystems and components to 
the new/existing Network, specifically interfacing to the suite of DICOM SOP classes 
required in this project; 
Expertise in interfacing the proposed PACS Server(s) to the Hospital Information 
System and to insure the complete and successful bi-directional communications 
required to support the specified applications. 
Project Management Expertise, as the Bidder is expected to manage the installation and 
testing of the system; 
Expertise in interfacing the proposed PACS Server(s) to Non DICOM equipment and to 
insure the complete and successful communications required to support the specified 
applications. 
Expertise in conducting a successful “Training the Trainer” program to insure that 
Client personnel will be properly trained on the use and care of the proposed system 
and that the Training Program can be successfully repeated on site by Client personnel 
as required supporting a fully digital radiology department. 
 
Qualification Criterion 
PACS Manufacturer must bid directly 
PACS manufacturer should be a company registered in India for minimum 5 years 
PACS should have been deployed at more than 10 sites within India out of which at least 2 should 
be in government  hospitals.  List of installations to be provided. 
PACS must be fully web based 
PACS must be US FDA and CE Certified, HIPAA compliant and US IHE compliant. 
US FDA approved Zero foot print viewer. 
PACS Vendor should preferably be ISO Certified. 
The solution should not use any free/open source DICOM tools. Vendor should submit 
a certificate declaring conformance for this. 
Bidder will be asked to demonstrate the features and inability to show any 
feature can result in their bid being rejected. 


--- Page 19 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Radiology /289/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 19 
 
 Vendor should make provisions for onsite technical support with special mention about 
maximum down time if any. 
 The overall implementation duration should not exceed 4-6 weeks. 
 
Technical requirements 
Major requirements 
The PACS shall be client based cluster architecture solution with web based functionality also 
available with all users accessing all functions through the major Internet Browsers. 
With the intention of Client to eliminate paper, the bidder shall include a strategy for 
document scanning and management of the application that can be integrated into 
the PACS. 
PACS should support multithreading technology for DICOM communication. 
There should be no restriction of License in PACS based on exams per annum. 
Offered PACS should support high volume reading. 
Solution should support image viewing from Tabs based on android and ios interfaces. 
Offered system should have a common GUI for all PACS workplaces 
PACS should support and connect unlimited modalities both present & future. No 
extra license cost will be applicable for any new modality connectivity. All new modalities will be 
connected free of cost. 
PACS should integrate bidirectionally with HIS in future with HL7 interface compatibility. The 
responsibility for the same lies with the vendor which he has to do without any extra cost including 
additional hardware/software/licences if required. 
System 
The proposal shall include a detailed description of the architecture of the system, 
documenting the system topology and the components of the system. 
The system shall meet all performance requirements in this specification with the 
database storing 05 years examinations. 
The system shall support system-wide authentication of users through the use of a 
unique user-ID and password for each user or through an alternative approach with 
equivalent result. 
The bidder shall provide mechanisms to assure the security of all system 
components to minimize loss of equipment or data due to theft or malicious 
tampering. 
The system should provide same user interface to any user if logged from any 
computer 
In case of network disconnection the system shall automatically resume the image 
display on reconnection 
System shall display the complete image available at that moment in case of 
network disruption or disconnection. 
Should support collaboration features like Video conferencing, Chat and Desktop 
sharing from the PACS directly to allow users to collaborate with each other 


--- Page 20 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Radiology /289/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 20 
 
Any user preferences like keyboard shortcuts, worklist columns once setup by a 
user should be available if the user logs from any computer. 
Main PACS Application/Database 
The system shall support the creation of individual users each having individually 
configurable access-privileges. 
The system shall provide an access control mechanism that enables assignment of 
unique access privileges to individual users to access or alter system resources and 
data. 
Examples of such functions are: 
o Displaying approved reports 
o Displaying unapproved (unsigned) reports 
o Displaying images 
o Printing images 
o Burning CD/DVD’s 
o Changing the status of images and exams 
o Changing the display attributes of exams 
o Approving reports 
o Creating, modifying, or deleting studies 
The database should also support a direct DICOM Query/Retrieve interface which should be viewer 
version 3:0 or above , such as could be used for 3rd party workstations or modality retrievals, 
without noticeable performance degradation. 
A system-wide administration function shall be provided to facilitate user profile 
creation, worklist query creation, system configuration management, data integrity 
checks and maintenance, and any other administration functions as required by the 
implementation of the product. A graphical user interface for this function is 
required. In particular, patient merges and split, as well as exam merge and split 
features shall be provided. 
The system shall implement the following minimum DICOM SOP Classes 
o DICOM Storage 
o DICOM Verification 
o DICOM Print 
o DICOM Q/R 
o DICOM Send 
 
Image Archive 
The system shall provide sufficient storage capacity to provide direct rapid access to 
06 months of image production in online archive. 
Secondary archive should store 05 years data and must retrieve automatically 
without manual intervention 
 The vendors are required to assess the workload of department by visiting department and in 
consultation with head. The responsibility of storage to be adequate for this period lies with the vendor. 


--- Page 21 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Radiology /289/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 21 
 
 Should be Vendor Neutral Archive (VNA) preferably level 3 and above. 
The system shall not store any image in the storage system with non-reversible 
compression. (Lossy compression) 
The system shall make exams available for retrieval by workstations. 
The storage system shall tolerate the failure of a single disk drive without loss of 
data. 
The storage system shall remain operational in the event of the failure of a single 
disk drive. 
The storage system shall remain operational during the service required to correct a 
failed disk drive. 
The storage system shall support the storage and retrieval of all SOP classes needed 
to accommodate the present modalities. It shall support Explicit as well as Implicit 
Value Representation as part of its Syntax and store Explicit VR as its default 
transfer syntax. 
The system shall provide a DICOM interface to which DICOM-compliant external 
devices may connect. External devices are devices not supplied with the system and 
include but are not limited to image review workstations, image printers and 
modalities. 
The system shall include a DICOM Query/Retrieve SCP which is based on the Patient 
and Study Root Information model and which provides query responses for all 
studies, series, and images stored in either the Storage System and/or the Archive 
System. 
The system shall include a DICOM Modality Worklist Management SCP 
The system shall include a DICOM Storage Commitment SCP which accepts storage 
commitment by the modalities. 
The bidder shall provide with the proposal the Conformance Statements covering all 
DICOM services of the system for each individual component. 
The external DICOM interface shall support storage of ultrasound images using the 
Ultrasound Storage SOP Class. 
The system shall provide DICOM Support for ultrasound & cathlab cine loops. 
Image library function for research and marking interesting cases must be available. 
Teleradiology module for accessing images and reporting from remote locations 
should be available. 
Image Display Workstations 
Two categories of Display workstations are required: 
Diagnostic workstation (DWS) primarily located in the radiology department and 
used for Diagnostic interpretation, and 
Review workstations (RWS) primarily located in radiology department for 
reviewing purposes. 
User Interface 
The cursor shall move within and between monitors in a smooth and continuous 
manner under the control of a mouse or trackball pointing device with the cursor 
remaining visible during its movement. 


--- Page 22 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Radiology /289/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 22 
 
The system shall enable all users to create their own profiles accessible from any 
workstation which specifies at a minimum: 
o Window width and level presets 
o Default display protocols 
o Mouse Settings 
o Worklist Columns as per choice 
o Electronic Signature 
o Autorefresh time for Worklist 
o Size of Worklist 
The system shall provide the capability to access user specific hanging protocols 
from each workstation. These hanging protocols should be created through a user 
friendly GUI which would allow a user to edit the default protocols and/or generate 
them from scratch. These hanging protocols will be modality and body-part specific. 
The system shall provide a mechanism for automatic logoff of a user at a 
workstation after a configurable period of workstation inactivity. 
Exams, Folders, Worklists, and Queries 
The system shall allow dynamically updated worklists to be created by the system 
administrator for a specific user. For the purpose of this RFP, a worklist is any 
database query, which returns a list of exams or patients. Dynamically updated 
means that as exams change status in such a way as to change the contents of a 
worklist, the worklist is automatically refreshed within a specific time. The 
requirement for dynamic updating can be satisfied by periodic polling of the 
database with a frequency defined by a parameter which is configurable by the 
system administrator. 
A worklist entry for an exam shall include at least the patient name and ID, 
examination procedure, exam date and time, report status, modality, number of 
images, referring doctor, age & sex. 
The system shall support worklist which display a list of exams based on queries of: 
o patient name 
o patient ID 
o UHID/hospital registration number 
o modality 
o report status 
o study date 
o Between a range of dates 
o Marked studies 
 
Worklists shall be generated and stored centrally to the PACS network so that a 
user, logged on to any workstation, may access any worklist from the network and 
display exams selected from this worklist to his/her current workstation location. 
Worklist should be customizable for each user and allow the user to display their 
own set of columns. User should also be able to setup his page size and dual monitor 
support. 


--- Page 23 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Radiology /289/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 23 
 
The workstation shall allow the user, with a single click, to sort the studies on any of 
the columns displayed in the Worklist. 
Offered system should utilize a data locking methodology, if several concurrent 
users access images i.e. Concurrent users will get reading access to images & no 
reporting except by 1st user is allowed. 
All exams shall be accessible from every workstation, limited only by security 
mechanisms. 
Old exams should be automatically displayed in the image viewer along with history 
& report. User should be able to load upto 4 priors of any modality for comparison 
A mechanism shall be provided to permit a user with proper privileges to select 
images or exams for inclusion into one or more manually-created folders for 
teaching and research purposes. 
It shall provide a mechanism to lock a study to prevent deletion of that study by 
another user 
It shall provide a mechanism to attach a message from one user to another to every 
study 
The Worklist shall display STAT request by easily identifiable color codes 
Should be possible to merge 2 studies together 
Should be possible to split a study into two 
Should support scanning of paper/reports and conversion to DICOM series 
The Worklist shall display the studies which have been locked or printed with some 
indication 
It should be possible to add a keyword to a study and then search & retrieve a list of 
studies based on that keyword 
It should be possible to search report content for any user definable keyword and 
get a list of reports with such keywords. 
Reports 
The workstation shall allow creation of reports based on user selectable templates 
The workstation shall allow pre-configured header/footer in the report 
The report window shall be opened separately and multiple such windows can be 
opened 
The report shall allow insertion of key images for printing in user selectable format 
The report shall automatically display the patient demographics from the DICOM 
header 
The workstation shall allow a user with the proper privileges to display the report 
for any reported exam without requiring the display of its associated images. 
The administrative status of any report (e.g., approved or not approved) shall be 
indicated when the report is displayed. 
The system shall allow creation of multiple templates according to 
user/modality/organ 
The system shall support capture and attachment of audio file by the radiologist 
user for reporting 
The system shall allow the transcriptionist to review the audio and transcribe the 
report and submit it for approval of the radiologist 


--- Page 24 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Radiology /289/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 24 
 
The report shall support all standard formatting functions available in MS Word 
Report text search engine should be available 
PACS should support email/SMS of reports automatically on finalization. 
PACS should support speech recognition using dragon software. 
Exam Display, Arrangement and Image Processing 
The PACS system should be able to integrate with viewing software of major vendors like E-film, 
apple Osiris and radiant etc as well as software like flash, active X,java script and java applet . 
The workstation shall support the display of multiple images from one exam on one 
or more monitors. 
It shall be possible to choose among multiple image display formats for the monitors 
of a workstation, for example: 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 6:1, 9:1, 16:1, 20:1 and 24:1 
The system shall provide user-selectable, user-definable protocols for display of the 
images of an exam where the protocols are specific to the type of exam. The intent of 
this requirement is to allow physicians’ preferences for display to be satisfied. 
The workstation shall allow a user with the proper privileges to save the 
information that controls the display of the images of an exam, including window 
width and level, display sequence, orientation, magnification, pan position, and any 
annotations. 
The workstation shall support the display of multiple exams simultaneously. 
The system shall provide for display of multiple exams of a patient. The intent of this 
requirement is to support the presentation of historical studies along with a new 
study for diagnosis. 
The system shall support rapidly moving to the next or previous exam/series/image 
in a Worklist using the equivalent of one keystroke. 
The workstation shall have the capability to display CT and MRI scout images with 
the slice position lines overlaid on the image. User shall have the option of 
displaying all lines or only 1 line specific to one image 
Rapid sequential paging through images of an exam displayable on a single monitor 
shall be provided. 
Should display indication of printed studies 
Should display indication of finalized studies 
Should be possible to give keywords to any images and search on those later 
If multiple image series are viewed, it shall be possible to page through the series 
independently. 
The workstation shall support arranging groups of images into a stack (with only 
the top image visible) and displaying them sequentially forward or backward. 
The workstation shall support Thumbnail view providing a quick glance at the 
series within a study. 
The workstation shall support image display based on Acquisition time, Table 
position and Instance number of CT images 
The workstation shall support linking two or three image stacks and moving 
through them synchronously so that the same anatomic position or image sequence 
position is displayed in each stack. 


--- Page 25 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Radiology /289/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 25 
 
The Workstation shall provide for full screen image display and paging in this full 
screen window. 
A cine function with a user selectable, variable frame rate of at least 1 to 30 frames 
per second shall be provided. 
The cine function shall support user selectable continuous display, reverse playing 
and true size display of images. 
The user shall be able to extract frames from the cine file and save it as individual 
image. 
The workstation shall display all images of a cine file in user selectable display 
format in one keystroke/mouse click 
The workstation shall provide dynamic window width and level through the entire 
image grayscale dataset. 
The window width and level function shall be applicable to a single image, selected 
images or all images 
Window width and level values shall be displayed on the image in real time 
Display of the inverse grayscale of any image shall be supported. 
The system shall provide unlimited user-configurable window width and level 
defaults for each user. 
Window width and level defaults shall be user-, modality- and organ-specific. 
A rapid method to select among default window width and level values shall be 
provided. The intent of this requirement is to allow the user to jump between, for 
example, bone windows and soft tissue windows in CT using function keys. 
If an image is received from a modality along with a window width and level for 
viewing, the window width and level parameters shall be used for the initial display 
on the workstation. 
If an image is displayed for which no window width and level is available, the 
workstation shall select a set of values, which at least make the image visible as a 
starting point for subsequent manual changes. 
Ability to load different studies of different patients, side by side for comparison 
System should provide a quick filter function for one click search of studies (Weekly, 
Daily, Monthly) 
Predefined modality-specific display layouts 
The workstation shall allow user to convert image/series/study from DICOM to 
JPEG/BMP format for local storage. 
DSA Module is required for Cathlab images. 
Image Orientation, Zoom, Pan, and Magnifying Glass 
The workstation shall allow sequential 90 degree clockwise and counter-clockwise 
rotation of any image as well as flip in the horizontal and vertical axes. 
The workstation shall support angular rotation in any degree 
It shall be possible to reorient a single image, selected images, or all images in one 
operation. 
The workstation shall be capable of enlarging an image by interpolation of pixel 
values. 
It shall be possible to zoom a single image, selected images, or all images in one 


--- Page 26 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Radiology /289/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 26 
 
operation. 
Zoomed images shall be repositionable by panning (roaming) the image within the 
area allocated for display of the image. 
When the actual image size is greater than the monitor resolution or the resolution 
of the available display window, it shall be possible to display the image in True size 
The workstation shall include a magnifying glass function 
It should be possible to invert, reverse, flip an image or images 
Region of Interest, Distance, and Angle Measurements 
The workstation shall compute point-to-point measurements with automatically 
calibrated, user-selectable scales (micrometers, mm, cm, or inches). 
The workstation shall support angle measurement. 
The workstation shall support region of interest mean (in image units, e.g., 
Hounsfield units for CT) and area measurement based on ellipses and rectangular 
tracing. 
The Workstation shall provide a tool to compute Cobbs Angle 
The Workstation shall provide Protractor and Cross Product calculation tools 
The tools should have user definable color and line settings 
The workstation shall allow cropping/masking of image using ellipse or rectangle 
The workstation shall allow user to select a region of interest and move it to another 
part of image for highlighting a pathology. 
The workstation shall allow automatic edge detection in a image 
The Workstation shall provide a tool to compute CT Ratio 
Image Annotation 
The workstation shall provide tools allowing the user to position and orient 
multiple instances of text and graphics (lines, arrowheads, rectangle, freehand and 
circles) for image annotation. 
The Workstation shall provide tool for automatic labeling of intervertebral space 
and vertebrae (Spine Labeling) 
It shall be possible to edit or delete the annotations if required at a later date 
It shall be possible to print the annotations on film if required 
It shall be possible to change the color, size and font of the annotations and set them 
as default. 
Image Identification 
The workstation shall display along with each image at least the following patient 
data, where appropriate for the image and modality: 
o patient name 
o patient ID 
o exam date and time 
o image orientation 
o kVp 
o mAs 
o pulse sequence 
o slice position 


--- Page 27 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Radiology /289/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 27 
 
o image or slice number 
o referring physician 
o Institution Name 
o Equipment Model 
All the above shall have configurable position for display on any corner of image and 
user can set it in default position. 
The workstation shall allow the user to toggle the display of image identification 
text on and off. 
The workstation shall provide a function to display the entire contents of the DICOM 
header for a selected image. 
Utility Functions 
During the execution of a time-consuming function, the workstation shall indicate 
that the system is working. 
The workstation shall provide a function to allow the user to protect selected 
images from deletion. 
The workstation shall provide a function to allow the user to mark interesting 
studies and search them. 
Should support a user-friendly admin user interface 
User creation and different rights assignment should be available 
Remote administration of workplaces and PACS servers should be possible 
Should be possible to store the client configuration data centrally 
IT Dashboard which provides information of major activities like number of users 
logged in, study status, DICOM Services status should be available 
Statistical reports must be possible to be produced based on different criterion like 
TAT, Study volumes, radiologist TAT, CD Written, Films printed etc 
Should be possible to export the MIS reports to MS Excel 
System should support roaming user profiles (After logon, the user-specific settings 
are loaded independently on the workplace). 
Settings should be saved in a central repository 
Should define user groups according to the departmental structures 
User administration possible should be without programming skills 
Should provide complete audit trail of activities in the system. 
Hard Copy Printing 
The workstation shall allow users with the proper privileges to print exams on any 
DICOM image printer connected to the network. 
No installable program must be required for printing films from any station 
Requests for printing shall not compromise workstation operation or performance. 
The workstation shall allow the user to choose from multiple standard image 
formats: 1:1, 2:1, 4:1, 6:1, 9:1, 12:1, 16:1, 20:1 and 24:1 in either landscape or portrait format. 
The workstation shall allow the user to create his own customizable non standard 
format like 1:3, 2:3, 2:5 etc 
The workstation shall allow the user to arrange the images of the examination 
within the selected image format. 


--- Page 28 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Radiology /289/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 28 
 
The workstation shall allow the user to produce multiple copies of the same image 
with one request, up to a maximum limit specific to the user. 
The workstation shall allow the user to cancel a print request which he has 
previously entered. 
Adding Header/Footer and changing the position of the same should be possible 
Hospital Icon /patient photo may be allowed to be added for printing 
The workstation shall allow user to select different film sizes and film orientation 
It shall allow configuration of multiple DICOM printers into the system 
The workstation shall allow the user to print multimodality images on same film. 
The system shall have a film composer window with ability to process images 
before printing 
The system shall also allow image printing on standard paper printers. 
CD/DVD - reader/burner 
Client requires images that are brought in on CD’s to be imported into the system 
and also needs to create CD or DVD’s for patients and/or physicians to be taken. 
The images shall be imported and added to the permanent PACS database, in case it 
includes an in-patient and it has to be added to the patient record. Such studies 
should be flagged and easily identifiable 
System should write images in DICOM format on CD/DVD 
Should support Robotic CD/DVD Writers 
Should include a DICOM viewer on CD/DVD with features like W/L, Zoom, Pan etc 
Should support writing of multiple studies/multiple patients on the same Disc 
System should support writing in multi-session mode 
It should be possible to create individual label templates for CDs/DVDs 
Should be possible to add the report with images on the CD/DVD 
Should be possible to write DICOM images to USB sticks 
Should support Blu Ray DVDs 
Should support CD writing of Multiframe DICOM images including their viewing as 
cine. 
Advanced 3D Features: 
• Advanced 3D should be windows based 
• Basic 3D processing like MIP/MPR should possible directly at the reporting workstation 
without additional application changing 
• Following additional 3D features are required on 12 stations in radiology department 
for concurrent use 
Should work on Windows OS/Mac/Linux 
Multiplanar Reformat (MPR) 
MIP/AveIP/MinIP 
Curved Planar Reformat (CPR) 
Medial Axial Reformat 
Oblique/Double Oblique 
SSD 
Volume Rendering (VR) 


