--- Page 19 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ Neuro/194(III)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 19 
 
Specification of Cautery/ surgical diathermy machine for Neurosurgery 
 
General specifications & terms- 
 
 All units/ items including accessoriesshould be USFDA and European CE 
certified. 
 Should be able to operate with Indian Standard Mains Supply Power – 220 – 
240 Volts AC,50 Hz 
 5 yr warranty &5 yr CMC (wherever applicable) should be included with 
provision of supply of spare parts items   supplied for next 10 years 
 Principal Company should have registered Office and Service Network in India, 
preferably North India for better service support. 
 User manuals should be in English. 
 Provision of trained manpower support  for at least for initial 3 months after 
installation or up to a period when the staff/technicians at AIIMS Rishikesh are 
trained in handling, storage and proper sterilization methods of  supplied 
equipment has to be ensured by the bidder.  
 Compliance statement should be submitted in a tabulated & point wise 
manner. 
 Unit price of individual items must be quoted. 
 Price of essential consumables should be fixed for next 5 years. 
 Customized Trolley/s for main unit/s, as well as Suitable customized 
storage/sterilization cases for attachments orbipolar forceps, should be 
supplied in adequate number even if not separately asked for. (These should be 
from the manufacturer of accessory only- non customized trolly/containers 
from other manufactures will not be accepted). 
A. Unit/s must be Microprocessor controlled H.F. Unit/s with high power efficiency 
rating 
B. Dedicated Diathermyunit for Neurosurgery and Micro-neurosurgery- submit the 
list of reputed users in India and performance report including after sale service. 
C. Should have Monopolar and Bipolar output. The system should come with 
irrigation system providing precisely measured irrigation to support the surgeon in 
bipolar coagulation & bipolar cutting. 
D. If any manufacturer has only bipolar unit with integrated irrigation then a separate 
Monopolar unit with all accessories and customized trolley, all of which is USFDA & 
ECE certified should be supplied along with. 


--- Page 20 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ Neuro/194(III)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 20 
 
E. Monopolar should have different mode like Cut, Blend, Soft and Spray facility, 
bipolar should have cut, coagulation and blend function. 
F. Output should be 300 watts or better (Monopolar) and 80 watts or better (Bipolar) 
output.  
G. The micro setting of   bipolar should be between 0.5 – 9.5 watt or similar with an 
increment of 0.1 w. 
H. Display should be digital 
I. It should have  user‐defined, programmable profiles. 
J. Should have Alarm and Error Display Facility for Safety of Patient and Operator 
Accessories to be supplied- USFDA & ECE certified 
 Should have standard Accessories monopolar Handle, Cables, Foot Paddle, Bipolar 
Forceps , Cable, Neutral Plate, Cable and Electrodes,  irrigation unit, (if not 
integrated) should have standard Accessories like power cord, pressure cut off & 
tube set. 
1. Sterile Monopolar cautery pencils with attached leads- 100 units, if Reusable type 
handles are quoted then quote at least 10, reusable sterilizable handles with push 
buttons, tips and 20 reusable connecting cables with appropriate plugs. 
2. Reusable patient contact electrode-3 
3. Loop Monopolar electrodes tips of different sizes- 5 
4. Autoclavable reusable bipolar cables-5 
5. Sterile Irrigation tubing sets– 100 
6. Bipolar forceps + storage container/s 
 Insulation coating should be robust&impact resistant.  
 Exposed tip should not be more than 8mm unless necessitated by forceps 
working design (allowed in few forceps only).  
 Plug should preferably be flat-pin type and should be self cleaning to ensure 
proper & reliable electrical contact. 
 Tips should ensure high precision grasping of tissue. 
 An integrated guiding mechanism is preferable 
 In bayonet type forceps, geometry should be optimized for use under 
operating microscope so that maximum view of the surgical site should be 
obtained. The fingertip handling should be safe and precise. 
 Customized Storage container from the same manufacturer with mesh tray 
and silicon receptacles for these should be provided in appropriate 
number; forceps without appropriate storage container will not be 
accepted. 
 
 


