--- Page 45 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1157/23/GTE 
 
45
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – VII  
             Specification for Intraoperative nerve monitoring system 
Sn 
Description 
1 
The system should have minimum of Eight Channel EMG Monitoring module. 
2 
Should be capable of monitoring cranial Motor Nerves III,IV,V,VI,VII,IX,X,XI, and XII and peripheral 
motor nerves. 
3 
EMG signal must have audio and video representation of the signals.  
4 
System should have different sounds for current deliver and captured signal due to nerve stimulation. 
5 
The equipment should be designed for ease of use with electrode placement screen displayed on the main 
unit for easy and faster electrode placement. 
6 
System should have pre-defined protocols for common procedures and option to add custom procedures. 
7 
System should have touch sensitive screen and also rotary knobs for adjusting the current levels and other 
features of the software. 
8 
Should have option for Real-time Continuous monitoring of X cranial nerve with 'Automatic Periodic 
Stimulation' electrode of diameter 2mm and 3mm. 
9 
Software should have option to pre-set the time for periodic stimulation as per surgeon preference. 
10 
System should provide warning when amplitude and latency deviate from the baseline during periodic 
monitoring. 
11 
Should have high sensitivity with reduced interference from noise.  
12 
Should have artifact detection feature to distinguish between artifact and EMG signals. Should display 
aritifact signal and EMG response in different color. 
13 
Audio option should give different audio for current delivery and signal detection. Also system should read 
out the delivered current if required. 
14 
Should have electrode impedance – checking features.  
15 
Should have two constant current type stimulator ports. 
16 
Should have Capability to deliver current from 0.00 mA to 30 mA. It should give warning if the current is set 
beyond 3mA for patient safety. 
17 
Should have stimulating probe which can be used to adjust stimulation level and print or save data directly 
by surgeon performing the surgery from operative field.  
18 
System should be provided with Press tip/ insulated till tip monopolar and similar bipolar stimulating probe. 
19 
Should be able to save and load custom setting with quick setup. 
20 
Should be able to get printable case log report for patient records. 
21 
Should have color coded channel labelling for easy identification & use.  
22 
Should have USB port for connection with mass storage devices including compact flash drive. 
23 
Should have muting option to reduce unwanted signals and artefacts specially monopolar cautery noise.  
24 
Should be able to change the display scales to maximize recorded amplitude. 
25 
Should have event capture on/off option to show captured signal and free run EMG signal. 
26 
Should have feature to take screen shots during the surgery which can be then saved on pendrive in report 
format. 
27 
Consumable for 2 and 4 channels each along with stimulating probe should be quoted.  
28 
System should be provided with ET tubes with EMG electrode already reinforced to the tube and should 
have color coded electrode for easy placement. 
29 
System should be provided with simulator for easy testing of system for better troubleshooting. 


--- Page 46 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1157/23/GTE 
 
46
 
 
30 
05 year warranty and 05 year CMC is required incl all accesories 
31 
System should be BIS/ ISO/European CE/USFDA approved and certificate should be attached with tender. 
32 
All the equipment incl all the accessories should be provided with the detailed data sheet along with the 
original brochure of quoted model (Photocopy/printout not accepted)  
33 
List of major installation in last two year should be provided  
34 
Training for user department, doctors and staff should be provided as per satisfaction of buyer 
35 
Trolley with wheel so can be easily to moved and storage box for all accessories 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 47 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1157/23/GTE 
 
47
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE 
document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic 
parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of 
installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date of 
satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 98% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period 
by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After 
sales 
service 
centre 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service should 
be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the 
spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date of 
supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian 
Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the 
equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same will be in line with the 
training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site 
Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service 
/operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory 
completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for 
complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts 
wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The supplier shall visit 
each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer‟ s technical/ service 
/operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive 
maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender 
Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of 
any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim 
for the same will be entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee 
for 5% of the cost of the CMC as per Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of 
entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 98% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 
365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime 
period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee‟ s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the 
Bank Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 48 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1157/23/GTE 
 
48
 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, 
wherever required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to 
be installed, in consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. 
Site Modification Work details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the 
end of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of 
the Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The 
Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking 
Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation 
the price will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be 
entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderer‟ s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). 
The tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it‟ s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical 
equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety 
Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard 
IEC- 60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is 
not available they should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for 
electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test 
and Development Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance 
call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard 
interface interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital 
management information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost 
technical training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment 
on site at the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be 
required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and 
CMC period 


