--- Page 16 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/MRD/19/32/RC 
 
16 | P a g e  
 
 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION OF DIGITIZATION & SCANNING OF MEDICAL RECORDS 
DOCUMENTS (Tentative Qty. 30 Lakh Pages) 
1. Receiving of discharge case sheets from Medical Record Department 
2. Arranging and page numbering to be done as per order of assembling of MRD 
3. Scanning of Records & image enhancement & storing image, storing in DVD/Hard Drive 
disc of MRD & Server room. 
4. The temporary storage during the scanning will be the responsibility of the firm. The 
scanned data to be provided in DVD/Hard Drive. 
5. The record should be scanned and returned to MRD within 24 hours. The paper work for 
receipt and issue of records to be printed/ provided by outsource agency and returning 
back the case sheet in original in Assembled/ Stapled order to MRD. 
6. The scanning will be done in MRD only, But the hardware / Software/ Maintenance/ 
Manpower will be provided by the outsourcing agency. Only the office will be changed 
extra space as per tariff.  
7. Software for retrieval of Medical records by various parameters viz. Admission No. i.e. 
MRD No., Demographic profile, ICD-10 code Nos., date/month/year, etc. of scanned 
documents for searching these parameters either keyword or using a software link. A 
separate software for retrieval of diagnostic data should be provided with various 
parameters viz. retrieval of data disease wise, sex wise, age wise, unit wise, geographical 
wise, etc. 
8. The software should be installed at hospital server for easy retrieval. 
9. Software for MRD functions i.e. file issue, reports & follow up of records with various 
departments as and when any other required, training of MRD staff to work on software. 
10. Coding and diagnostic indexing of documents, as per ICD-10 coding book of WHO, to be 
done by man power of outsource agency in the software at MRD/ Server room of this 
hospital. 
11. The key if any for all the above software i.e. scanning & MRD Functions should be given 
to server room of this hospital for any repair/alteration/corrections/additions, as & when 
required. 
12. The rate quoted should be applicable for further one years. After obtaining successful 
completion certificate by the Officer in charge of MRD every year. 
13. The scanning should be done in the PDF/any latest format. 
14. Initially the contract will be awarded for the period of one year extendable till 1 years 
based on performance & after getting successful completion certification from the CMO in 
charge of MRD every year. 
15. Record ID: auto generated unique ID irrespective of case sheet no. 
16. Record Type i.e. IPD case sheet, OPD Case sheet, emergency case sheet, post mortem 
report, discharge summary, death/ birth certificate etc. 
17. Hardcopy Record storage: Rack detail with location. 
18. Hardcopy Record Storage: Shelf detail with location. 
19. Case sheet owning department unit/ ward. 
20. Contact of case sheet that no. of reports, no progress notes pages, no of x-ray etc. 


--- Page 17 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/MRD/19/32/RC 
 
17 | P a g e  
 
21. Manual Record Status i.e. available, Not traceable, destroyed etc. 
22. Need to map with specific keywords. Keyword can be mapped with Operation name, 
diagnostic, Findings. This can be used for research purpose searching. 
23. Access type of case sheet i.e. Restricted, Normal, Confidential etc. 
1. Scope of Work 
AIIMS, RAIPUR is looking for only turnkey solution providers having Document 
Management Systems experience and must have undertaken and executed project 
involving digitization of Hard/Print  Copies, integrating  with born-digital  contents and 
providing post digitization Digital  Solution  like retrieval of images/records  and to 
capture  and integrate new arrival  of digital records. 
The activities involved shall be 
 
Scanning/quality enhancement/cropping of existing Record/digitization: 
 
 
The documents/pages of different sizes (A4/A3 etc.) are required to be transformed 
/ converted into digital format (both images and/or pdf) and archived with proper  
indexing  for easy retrieval. 
 
This digitization is a time bound initiative to be accomplished with in a period of 1 
year. 
 
The documents have to be digitized within the premises of AIIMS, RAIPUR and no 
physical document or digitized material shall be allowed to leave the premises at any 
point of time. 
 
The original document is fragile and likely to be lost in the near future, extremely 
valuable documents  where re digitization is problematic, requires high quality 
prints 1:1 - we need as perfect copy as possible -> usually 600 dpi or better 1200 
dpi, with lighting and colour calibration (ICC profile), lossless compression 
 
 
Development of application software for – Document Management System: 
 
 
The vendor should have to develop, test, implement and provide a web based 
application software to be run on intra-net / multi user/ multi-distributed 
environment with proper security provisions and audit trail for storage and retrieval 
of records on keys as specified by the MRD. 
 
The software should also be able to capture and integrate new arrival of digital 
/non-digital (after scanning) records. 
 
Sufficient number of copies (five – one original and four photocopies) of software 
documentation & user manuals shall have to be provided. 
 
The training of MRD Staff AIIMS, RAIPUR – for six months for one group consisting 
of up to 20 persons shall be given. 
 
2. Eligibility Criteria (Please provide documentary proof for following with technical bid) 
 
a) Tender is open to all firms/companies in India, engaged in providing Digitization and 
Digital Archiving Solution. 
b) The vendor should be registered with Directorate of Service taxes need only apply 
and the vendor should submit the details of registration of their firm/company, 
income GST registration & copy of PAN Card, GST. 
c) The vendor should have been certified ISO 9001:2008 or any other Certificate for 
quality Management. 
d) The vendor should have developed similar web/LAN - GUI based application 
software on intra-net /multi user/ multi-distributed for any of the Government 
Departments / Autonomous Bodies / Examining bodies/ Corporate bodies. 


