--- Page 31 ---
          Tender enquiry No. :   F.No 24/Neonatology/Hypothermia system /630 /2021-RISH (ADMN) 
 
 
 
[Type here] 
 
Specifications:        
Item: Whole Body Hypothermia System 
Specifications: 
l. Microprocessor based Servo-controlled neonatal cooling system.  
2. Should be able to cool down to 30-degree C.  
3. Should be able to re-warm the body to normal temperature at a user selectable rate.  
4. Should monitor oesophageal or rectal temperature and use that for servo control.  
5. Large clear display to set temperature, measured temperature of oesophagus or rectum, measured 
temperature of skin, measured temperature of mattress.  
6. Alarms: Deviation from set temperature by more than 1 degree C. flow Fluid, No Flow, Power 
Failure, System Failure.  
7. The fluid used for cooling should be safe for baby's skin and its composition should be provided.  
8. System should be mounted on a sturdy compact trolley with castor wheels and brakes.  
9. To be supplied with:  
i. Complete two sets of accessories required for normal functioning of the machine  
ii. At least 50 sets of disposables needed for each use. 
10. Should qualify the quality standards of European CE/FDA/ISO/BIS, wherever required.  
11. The equipment should be environment safe as per safety standards.  
12. Should be electricity hazard safe as per safety standards. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 32 ---
          Tender enquiry No. :   F.No 24/Neonatology/Hypothermia system /630 /2021-RISH (ADMN) 
 
 
 
[Type here] 
 
 
 General Specification: 
1. 
Memory of all set and measured parameters for at least 120 hours.  
2. 
Ability to transfer data to portable media/computer. Lf any software or cables are 
required for this. they should be provided.  
3. 
Comprehensive warranty & CMC for at least 5 years from date of installation with at least 
3- monthly visits for routine checking and whenever called lor troubleshooting. 
4. 
 Consumables should be provided as per CMC for 5 years.  
5. 
List of consumables should be quoted with individual prices separately and rates should 
be frozen for a period of next 5 years beyond warranty/CMC.  
6. 
Should have spare part & service available for another 5 years after completion of CMC.  
7. 
Onsite physical demonstration/training of the equipment to all the end users with all the 
requested facilities will be mandatory. 
8. 
 Documentation: 
 a. User/Technical/Maintenance manuals to be supplied in English  
b. Certificate of calibration and inspection from factory  
9.   General requirement for Electrical safety of Medical Equipment. 
10.  Should have local service facility with response time of less than 24 hrs. 
11.  The service provider should have the necessary equipment's recommended by the manufacturer 
to carry out preventive maintenance test as per guidelines provided in the service/maintenance 
manual. 


