--- Page 10 ---
Tender for CPAPBipap Machine                                                                                                Admn/Tender/241/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
CPAPBipap 
Machine 
1.        Usable for both adults and pediatric patients above 15 Kg body 
weight. 
2.       Should have continuous mode of operation. 
3.       Should have multiple therapy modes i.e. CPAP, BILEVEL, 
PAC (PRESSURE ASSIST CONTROL), SPONTANEOUS, S/T 
(SPONTANEOUS/TIMED), 
VAP 
(VOLUME 
ASSURED 
PRESSURE SUPPORT), Auto E-PAP etc. 
4.       Should have battery backup (up to 4 hrs.) 
5.       Must be electromagnetically compatible. 
6.       Pressure output should be 30 cmH2O or higher 
7.       Should be able to measure and display parameters accurately 
(i.e. RR, Exhaled tidal volume/exhaled minute ventilation, air leak rate 
etc.) 
8.       Should be supplied with Integrated Humidifier. Should have 
Alarm system both visual and audible of different priorities 
9.      Colored display screen 
displaying all the 
set parameters 
like RR,EPAP,IPAP<Exhaled 
VT, Leak, mode of ventilation etc. 
10.   Ramp availability required. 
11.   Accessories to be supplied with each unit: 
(1.) Power cord, 
(2.) Silicon 
Reusable (Autoclavable) Two 
small 
size Full face masks, 
(3.) Silicon 
Reusable (Autoclavable) 
Three 
medium 
size Full face masks, 
(4.) Silicon 
Reusable (Autoclavable) 
Two 
large size Full face mask and 
(5.) Silicon 
Reusable (Autoclavable) 
Three 
medium 
size nasal masks. 
(6.) Two Adult and Two Pediatric Breathing circuit 
(7.) One Wheel based 
stand (by 
same manufacturer will be preferred over other branded. Specify 
brand in compliance sheet) 
(8.) Cover for the Machine 
12.   Breathing circuit should be Re-usable. The Breathing tubes 
should be preferably with heating tubes/wire. 
13.   Automatic leak detection and compensation for at least 30 Liters. 
14.   Supplied with a set of mains leads and carry bag. The filter 
should be washable and reusable 
15.   Should have Spo2 Module with one adult and one pediatric 
probe and data Module. 
16.   Should have provision of data storage and transfer. Should 
provide OEM software to analyse data. 
17.  Weight of the machine should be less than 5 Kgs (light weight 
preferred) and should be user friendly. 
18.   Operating voltage 220-240 v, 50 HZ. 
19.   In case of malfunction/breakdown, the company should provide 
temporary back-up support within 48 hrs. of registering the complaint 
till the time machine is repaired and returned. 
20.   The company should give the certificate that the model quoted is 
the latest and not obsolete; and spares will be easily available for next 
5-7 years. 
21.   Must give rate of Accessories like breathing circuits and masks of 
06 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for CPAPBipap Machine                                                                                                Admn/Tender/241/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
all sizes (face masks and nasal masks), which should be applicable for 
two years. 
22.   In the technical bid the product should be quoted with a set of 
asked accessories.  The price bid must clearly state the accessories 
included.  
23.   The price of optional accessories like FiO2 module etc. should be 
quoted separately. 
24.   The product or its earlier model should have been marketed in the 
national or international market for at least 5 years. 
25.   If the equipment is software based, and the new software is 
introduced within five years the up gradation will be provided free of 
cost 
26.   Demonstration: The Department may ask for demonstration of 
actual quoted product or even for trial use. 
27.   Training: The necessary training of the personnel for the use of 
the equipment will be provided by the company/vendor.  The vendor 
must mention the type of training i.e. on site or abroad and number of 
persons. 
28.   Compliance statement.  The vendor must provide, in tabular 
form a comparative chart of the required technical specification and 
technical specification of the quoted product.  Vendor must specify 
marketing name of quoted product. The vendor must give the relevant 
page number and paragraph number, in their literature regarding that 
technical information in the technical bid.  Merely stating “complies” 
or “meets requirement” will lead to assumption that the quoted 
product does not have the required feature. 
29.   Should be US FDA & European CE approved 


