--- Page 10 ---
Tender for ACLS Training System with wireless control and patient monitor     Admn/Tender/62-2/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
 
01. 
 
ACLS Training 
System with 
Wireless Control 
and Patient Monitor    
 
ACLS Training System with wireless control & patient monitor should 
have following features:  
 
I. Airway (head tilt/chin lift, jaw thrust) 
 i. lntubation  
ii. Oral/nasal airway insertion  
iii. Supraglotic airways (LMA, LTA and Combitube)  
iv. Sellick maneuver  
v. Auscultation of lung sounds during ventilation 
 vi. Realistic chest rise and fall  
II. Cardiac Features 
 i. Circulation 
 1. Instructor controlled ECG rhythm  
2. ECG monitoring  
3. Defibrillation (manual/automatic)  
4. Auto conversion of ECG with defibrillation  
5. Defibrillation sensors  
6. Pacing  
ii. Blood pressure/ Pulses 
 1. Adjustable pulse strength 
 2. Adjustable heart rate  
3. Automatic carotid pulse (electronic pulses) Synchronized (w/ECG)  
4. Carotid pulse check sensors 
 5. Pulses can be felt when palpated  
6. Pulse strengths physiologically connected to the ECG rhythms  
iii. Debriefing  
1. Debriefing through time stamped recorded events  
2. Quick Review of CPR performance  
iv. Circulatory skills and IV drug administration  
1. Volume infusion  
2. Realistic flashback 
 3. IV insertion  
III. CPR  
i. 
Anatomical landmarks  
ii. 
 Head tilt/chin lift sensors  
iii. 
 Ventilation with bag-valve-mask  
iv. 
 Ventilation measurement and feedback  
v. 
 Chest compressions  
vi. 
 Compression measurement and feedback 
vii. 
 Detailed CPR evaluation — 
1. The wireless feedback should have following inbuilt features  
2. Live feedback of CPR performance for single and multiple manikin 
connection for comparison of BLS Performances learners 
 3. Real time, live feedback of CPR performance  
4. Training in Assessment mode (with no live feedback when required)  
5. Detailed debriefing screens 
 6. Summary overviews highlighting areas for improvement  
7. Multi-manikin overview for class teaching  
8.  Adjustable limits/thresholds for compressions and ventilations 
(including ERC / AHA preset 2015 Guidelines) 
  
 
10.  Detailed debriefing screens  
a. Summary overviews highlighting areas for improvement  
b. Annotation of events during CPR simulation 
 c. Multi-manikin overview for class teaching  
d.Adjustable limits/thresholds for compressions and ventilations  
 
11. Wireless feedback system which shall measure and provide following 
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for ACLS Training System with wireless control and patient monitor     Admn/Tender/62-2/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
feedback  
a. Real-Time Feedback  
b. Compression Depth  
c. Compression Rate  
d. Incomplete Release 
 e. Incorrect Hand position  
f. Ventilation volume  
g. Compression and Ventilation counter 
 12. The wireless feedback system should provide real time feedback on CPR to 
improve the performance and should provide score at the end of the assessment.  
IV. Gastrointestinal: Independent stomach  
V. Eye Feature: Pupils can be set to Normal, Dilated, Constricted  
VI. Simulation administration  
i. 
Event logging 
ii. 
 ii. Remote control  
iii. 
iii. Pre-programmed scenarios  
VII. Patient Monitor — 
i. Should provide concise clinical feedback and simulates physiological 
parameters including wave form and value display for HR, ECG, Sp02, BP, 
RR, Temperature, etCO2, as in a real patient monitor.  
ii. CPR compressions should generate a blood pressure wave form & ECG 
artifact.  
VIII. Log —  
i. 
Should be able to assist the instructor verifying the student 
performance as per pre-prepared check list.  
ii. 
 The system should also log intervention on the manikin.  
IX. Wireless Instructor Control Device — 
i. 
The instructor can communicate with the learner through manikin 
for assessment training.  
ii. 
 Should enable control of patient vital signs and physiological 
parameters.  
iii. 
 Should enable optimal data capture for effective performance 
debriefs.  
iv. 
 Should have two unique ways to control simulations. Instructors 
can individually adjust parameters for real-time control or use pre-
programmed content to reduce their workload and increase 
standardization.  
v. 
v. Should have option to create and edit clinical settings.  
X.  The system should be upgradable to integrate the optional training of rescue 
and extrication techniques combined with CPR and trauma modules to practice 
Life Saving First Aid together with CPR, Weighted, articulated arms and legs 
with simulated wounds. The arms and legs feature a selection of simulated 
burns, cuts and fractures. Limb articulation should allow for realistic patient 
handling and immobilization training. 
 
 Xl. Should have ISO and CE certification  
 


