--- Page 62 ---
 
 
 
SECTION – VII 
TECHNICAL  SPECIFICATIONS  
1.       The machine should be based on the principle of freezing point measurement 
2.        Measurement range: Between 0 and 2500 mosm / kg or more 
3.       Sample volume requirement: 100 µl or less 
4.       The machine should have facility for three point calibration for better accuracy and reliable results and with selectivity   
        for two point as a standard feature. 
1. Provision should exist for automatic calibration which must be easy to perform, and calibration should be stable for a 
long period. 
6.       The measurement should be completed within 2 minutes for handling higher workloads and serial measurements 
7.       Should have LCD graphic display with touch option for easy control and convenience in operation. 
8.       Should have automation with (i) the initiation of the crystallization, (ii) detection of the measuring value, (iii) storage  
        and (iv) calibration for precise and reproducible results. 
9.       The reproducibility should be within ±0.5% / ±1.5 mOsm/kg or better 
10.   Should have a measurement memory for 200 or more measurements 
11.   Should not require extra water supply. 
12.   Blocking of measuring tube or needle by freezing in stand-by mode can be counteracted by regular automatically  
        defrosting 
13.   Should have provision for built-in printer and scanner for sample and result documentation. 
14.   The machine should have standard equipment features communication through DTR RS232 serial port and USB port 
thereby offering extensive and flexible data handing possibilities. 
15.   Should have integrated real time clock to sort measurements and calibrations 
16.   Access to instrument can be code protected if wanted. 
17.   Power supply:  230V AC / 50 Hz 
18.   Should be USFDA or European CE or BIS approved product 
19.   Should be brand new and unused. 
20.   The system should have minimum 2 years warranty. 
21.  Should be supplied with accessories including: plastic tubes (minimum 50), standard solutions (including 300 and  
       900 mosm / kg), spare thermistor, spare needle, spare fuses, cleaning fluid, data transmitting cable RS232 / USB, MS- 
       Windows software, spare paper roll. 
 
a. Reaction Tubes (1.5ml)                      - 2500 nos. 
b. Osmolality Standards (300 mosm)  - 30 vials 
c. Osmolality Standards (900 mosm)  - 30 vials 
d. Printer Paper Roll                               - 15 rolls 
e. Freezing Needle                                 - 1 nos. 
f. 
Thermistor Probe                              - 1 nos. 
 
 
 
22. Rate for consumables for 5 years will be considered for comparative pricing. Also the cost incurred for CMC for 5 years    
(after excluding the warranty) should be included. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 63 ---
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document 
for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever 
applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning 
and Site Modification Work from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, 
trial run & handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by 
double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College on 
24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 
8 hrs. The service should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the 
Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 
10 years from the date 
of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents (if 
they 
have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction 
of the consignee. The same will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general 
technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site Modification 
Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes preventive 
maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service /operational manual 
of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory completion of Warranty period 
may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for complete equipment 
(including Batteries 
for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). 
The supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended 
in the manufacturer‟s technical/ 
service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ 
year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender Opening. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any 
such stipulation 
the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim for the same 
will be entertained 
later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be taken at Net 
Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory completion of said 
period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee for 2.5% of the cost of the 
equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) 
basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime period. 
f) During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee‟s site at least twice in 
6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, commencing 
from the date of the successful completion of warranty period for preventive maintenance 
of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the Bank 
Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 64 ---
 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, wherever 
required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be installed, in 
consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. Site Modification Work 
details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end of Technical Specification. 
The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of the Machine and Site Modification Work 
of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian 
Rupee will be added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price 
will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderers attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). 
The tenderer 
is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. accordingly failing which 
it‟s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of equipment 
for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should 
make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment to periodically 
check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety Standards IS-13540 which is also 
equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 
60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the 
Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they should provide a commitment to get 
the equipment checked for electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs 
/ Electronics Test and Development Centres across the country on every preventive 
maintenance call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management information 
system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical 
training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at the 
institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be required to train the 
institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC 
period 


