--- Page 8 ---
 
Installation 
and 
Commissioning 
Shall be done at the earliest but not later than 45 days of 
delivery of goods at site or date of handing over the site for 
installation, whichever is later. 
Scope of Incidental Services 
Installation & Commissioning, Supervision, Demonstration, 
Trial run and Training etc. 
Turnkey Work (if any) 
As per details in Technical Specification 
 
24. Technical Specifications: 
Technical Specifications of Ventricular assist device system – 01 Nos in CNC Department  
General requirements for the vendor: 
1. Warranty of the equipments should be 5 years 
2. After warranty period of 5 years, CAMC (Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract) with 
labour should be quoted for next 5 years (from 6 to 10 years). 
3. All the installation and assembly should be done with existing power supply 
4. Suitable electric wiring should be provided from the distribution box (DB) point through the 
existing system as per the load requirement 
5. The vendor will have to certify the minimum local content of the whole requirement in keeping 
with Order No. P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 04th June, 2020 issued by Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry, department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (Public 
Procurement Section). 
6. There should be adequate provision and all preventive measures should be taken to 
prevent entry of rats and insects through the duct or drainage system. 
 
Specification : 
 
Category One : 3rd Generation (for small and large adults, BSA 1.2 or more) 
1. 
The pumps should be capable of being used in patients with BSA of 1.2 and more. 
2. 
Should allow complete intrapericardial implant.  
3. 
VAD pump should be of continuous flow and centrifugal type. 
4. 
VAD pump volume to be 50cc, weight not more than 160gms and inflow diameter not more than 50 
mm. 
5. 
VAD pump flow range 0 to 10 l/m 
6. 
VAD outflow graft 10 -14 mm  
7. 
VAD pump design to be based on two stators. 
8. 
VAD pump should be of contactless design and moving part should not have any mechanical bearings. 
9. 
VAD pump should have an inbuilt speed variation for better washing of the left ventricle. 
10. 
Implantation should not involve any abdominal surgery and no pump pocket need to be made. 
11. 
Monitor should show real time waveforms for flow and power to constantly monitor patient. 
12. 
Display of trend screen flow/speed, flow/ power should be available up to 30 days. 


--- Page 9 ---
 
13. 
Two batteries together should be able to support up to 14 hours. 
14. 
Batteries should not need any calibration and should have a life of 500 cycles. 
15. 
Batteries connected should be used sequentially (one at a time) and not simultaneously by the 
system. 
16. 
Controller used should be microprocessor based and have LCD screen displaying pump parameters, 
alarms and recommended trouble shooting. 
17. 
The backup controller should match the primary controller for patient safety. 
18. 
Redundancies should be built in throughout the system which focus on essential performance of 
running the pump-motor drive power source and independent processors redundancy.   
19. 
There should be no graft at the inflow. Graft should only be at the outflow. 
20. 
The input cannula should have design specification to avoid tissue growth. 
21. 
LVAD implant should be suitable for sternotomy as well as thoracotomy. 
22. 
The Vendor will provide the Proctor and support team for the implantation. 
23. 
A product specialist would be available in house for at least 48 h after implantation.  
24. 
Any future upgrades to the software will be provided by the vendor free of cost. 
3rd generation left ventricular assist device – Technical Specifications  
(Category 2: for adults with large body surface areas ) 
 
 
The Pump should have a full magnetic levitation technology  
 
Pump should be approved by FDA for intention to provide long term hemodynamic support in patient with 
advanced, refractory left ventricular Heart failure for either as temporary support such as bridge to cardiac 
Transplantation (BTT), bridge to myocardial Recovery (BTR) or as a permanent destination Therapy (DT). 
 
The pump should be capable of supporting patients with BSA of 1.3 m2 or more 
 
It should be able to generate artificial pulsatility & should have textured surface in inflow & out flow conduit 
of the pump 
 
Pump should be light weight not more than 200 gms. 
 
External diameter should be less than 70 mm 
 
Pump should be able to display flow between 2.5-10 LPM 
 
Pump rotor should be completely suspended by magnetic forces, preventing surface to surface contact 
 
Pump should be able to run between 3000 to 9000 RPM & should be able to change speed with 100 RPM 
 
Monitor should be able to show pump parameters like RPM Flow, Power, PI, history & ability to save the data 
from controller & pump 
 
Monitor should be able to provide information of Back up batteries for controller & alarms. 
 
Controller used should be microprocessor based, & have LCD display pump parameters, alarms, 
recommended trouble shooting 
 
The backup controller should match to primary controller for patient safety 
 
Controller of the pump should be able to display last 6 alarms. 
 
System controller monitors performance of system, communicates to implanted VAD pump. It should 
continuously be able to check driveline, performs data processing & storage, fault detection & alarms.  
 
2 Batteries together should be able to support for more than 16 hours 
 
The Driveline should consist of two cables: the Pump Cable and a replaceable Modular Cable. 
 
The drive line should be thin & covered with Woven polyester which encourages tissue ingrowth, reducing the 
possibilities of infection. 
 
The pump should be able to be used in any of two configurations via line power or portable Battery power. 


--- Page 10 ---
 
 
The pump should be provided with 8 Li Ion batteries, Battery charger, line power source (mobile power unit), 
2 battery clips, shower bag & consolidated bag. 
 
Complete team training, proctor back up preimplant, intra operative support & post-operative log file analysis 
+ support should be available 24*7*365 days 
 
The Vendor will provide the Proctor and support team for the implantation. 
 
A product specialist would be available in house for at least 48 h after implantation.  
 
Any future upgrades to the software will be provided by the vendor free of cost. 
 
Demonstration:  If requested, the Technical Specification & Evaluation Committee can call the 
demonstration of quoted product by the firm to verify the technical specification/features of 
quoted product by the firm for selection/rejection before financial bid opening. Failure to 
arrange the demonstration if asked, shall leads to disqualification of the bid. 
Certifications 
1. It is confirmed that the pre-requisite requirement such as site, power, water, space, manpower, 
electricity etc for installation of the equipment have been decided/ earmarked and will be ready 
before arrival of the equipment, in order to obviate any delay in installation of the equipment 
and the equipment will be installed immediately after receipt at AIIMS. 
2. The specifications are General, Broad based and not suited in favour of any particular 
company/ brand. 
3. It is certified that the required item is not available on GeM Portal with required specifications 
and other standard tender terms like warranty, CAMC, and Payment etc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25. 
Warranty: 
a) The bidders must quote for Five years Comprehensive Warranty for complete equipment 
(Including all spares, labour and third party items) and Turnkey Work (if required) from 
the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run, handing over and acceptance 
of the goods by the User Department. 
b) The warranty charges shall not be quoted separately. 
c) During the Warranty period, desired Uptime of 95% of 365/366 (Leap Year) days (24 hrs), 
if downtime more than 5%, the warranty period will be extended by double the downtime 
period. In addition, a penalty equal to amount of 0.25 % of the total cost of equipment per 
day will be liable for the excess downtime period but not more than 5% of the equipment 
cost. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The firm must 
ensure provision of quality post sale service with 95% uptime of the equipment. The firm 
has to provide a replacement unit (same model) in case the time taken for repair is long. 
d) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Comprehensive Warranty 
period. 
26. 
After Sales Service: 
a) After sales service centre should be available at the city of Institution on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) 
X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The 
service should be provided directly by Bidder/Indian Agent.  Undertaking by the Principals 
in the “Manufacturer Authorisation Form” that the spares for the equipment shall be 
available for the lifetime of the equipment.  
b) Warranty as well as Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract will be inclusive of all 
accessories and turnkey work and it will also cover the following,  wherever applicable:-  


