--- Page 20 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/RT/Patho/ 143(XI)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 20 
 
 
Semen Analyzer 
1. Automated system for semen analysis, which should be reportable according to the WHO 5 
parameters. 
2. The equipment should provide the following parameters: 
i. 
Concentration 
ii. 
Total sperm count 
iii. 
Total percent motility (progressive + non progressive, rapid, medium and slow) 
iv. 
Motile sperm/ ejaculate concentration 
v. 
Total progressive motile/ ejaculate concentration 
vi. 
Progressive motility 
vii. 
Mean linearity 
viii. 
Motility index 
ix. 
Sperm viability 
x. 
Percentage of normal sperm morphology, with comment on parameters like head length, head 
width, head perimeter and head area. 
3. Should have facility for a visualization system/ video microscopy. 
4. Software to visualize the various morphometric parameters of the sperm should be available. 
5. Should have facility for quality control – self testing and calibrating using appropriate control 
samples. 
6. The coefficient of variation of the sperm count should be less than 5%. 
7. Data collection and processing unit: Branded computer with 2 GHz multicore processor, 6 GB RAM, 
DVD writer, original windows 7 Professional or higher, 1TB HDD, 23” or more; TFT monitor, 
keyboards and mouse. 
8. UPS with battery backup for 1 hour should be provided. 
9. The reports with raw data should be saved in a non-proprietary format for data transfer. 
10. The equipment should be FDA/ CE approved. 
11. Satisfactory demonstration is essential for technical qualifications. 
12. Onsite installation, training and commissioning should be done free of cost. 
13. Consumables for standardization and performing 100 tests should be provided with the equipment. 
The printer rolls required for printing the test results should also be provided at the time of installation 
for start up. 
14. The after sales service should be available within 24 hours and by trained service personnel. 
15. List of installations and feedback letters from the reputed government medical Institutes for this 
instrument supplied to assess performance and services. 
16. 5 years warranty and 5 years CAMC should be provided with supply of spare parts for at least 1 year. 
17. The installation will be deemed complete only when the machine is validated according to standard 
criteria. 
 
 
 


