--- Page 45 ---
47 
 
SECTION – VII 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION AND GENERAL POINTS 
 
 
Specifications for “Inverted Fluorescence Advanced Research Microscope with Imaging and 
Microplate Facility” qty. 01 no.  
 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
 
Essential features: 
1) A compact integrated unit, which includes microscope, digital camera, computer and 
high-power lighting system for fluorescence imaging.  
2) Should be equipped with an automated X-Y axis scanning stage and compatible with 
microplate of different well types i.e., 96 well, 24 well and 6 well plates along with 
opening and accessory vessel holders.  
3) Should be capable of imaging in different modes essentially including fluorescence, 
brightfield, color brightfield & phase contrast. The machine must include automated 
objective turret, filter and condenser. The machine should be able to acquire images 
simultaneously with at least three separate fluorescence channels plus one 
transmitted light channel. 
4) The system should also simultaneously accommodate at least 3 independent LED-
based light cube illuminators with integrated hard coated fluorescence band-pass 
excitation and emission filters for each cube plus a dedicated transmitted light slot. 
5) The light cube should be interchangeable and free from calibration. Machine should 
automatically recognize the installed and/or reinstalled light cubes and readjust 
accordingly for the image capturing. 
6) Lifespan of the fluorescence LED illuminators: More than 50,000 hours at 100% 
power.  
7) Minimum Required light tubes:  
 DAPI (357/44, 447/60)  
 GFP (470/22, 525/50) and  
 Texas Red (585/29, 628/32)  
8) Machine should be capable of accommodating minimum 5 objectives simultaneously. 
Required objectives 
 4X   Fluorite or Apochromat, LWD, phase-contrast, 0.13NA/10.58WD" 
 10X Apochromat, LWD, phase-contrast, 0.30NA/7.13WD" 
 20X Fluorite, LWD, phase-contrast, 0.45NA/6.12WD 
 100X Apochromat, coverslip-corrected (Oil Objective) 
 
9) The system should be equipped with 2 separate monochrome and CMOS cameras 
with auto-switching capabilities and following features. 
 Camera-1: Integrated high‐sensitivity with minimum 3.2 MP (2048 x 1536) 
monochrome CMOS sensor and 3.45 μm pixel resolution. 
 Camera-2: Integrated high-sensitivity with minimum 3.2 MP (2048 x 1536) color 
CMOS sensor and 3.45 μm pixel resolution. 
10) The system should be able to capture images in the single color, multicolor, area scan 
(montage and tile), time lapse, Z-stacking and movie mode. 
 
11) The system should be able to autofocus and provide a 1-click RGB channel overlay. 


--- Page 46 ---
48 
 
 
12)  The system should allow image acquisition in standard field mode and in area mode 
in which an 
entire sample vessel sector is visible.  
13) The system should allow identification and selection of a sample area of interest at 
low magnification in area mode and automatically scanning the selected area at 
higher magnification.  
14) The system should be capable of automated full plate scanning in time-lapse and/or 
area scan modes.  
15) Minimum requirement of image analysis software included with machine:  
• 
Lifetime multiple user professional software, which is freely upgradable 
• 
Preconfigured and optimized analysis templates for common applications with tools 
such as distance, region, angles, and area.  
• 
Should be capable of the time-lapse experiments for tracking cell movement or 
migration.  
• 
Can track intensity changes over time, such as in cell death or target gene expression 
studies. 
• 
Report can be generated in block diagram, graph, heat map, histogram, pie chart, 
scatter plot.  
16)  Desktop Computer with minimum following features:  
Operating system: macOS; Screen size: minimum 24 inch; RAM: minimum 8 GB; 
Storage: SSD 1TB, with wireless keyboard and mouse. Printer: Inktank color 
printer with auto duplex and network connectivity.  
17) Warranty and Training: Minimum One Year Complete warranty on all accessories, 
lens and light source. On-site two trainings within warranty should be provided.  
18) On-site demo, if required 
 
 
 
Bidders must consider & upload the following documents in the Technical 
bid & price bid. 
1. 
Tender acceptance Form (as per bid format) 
2. 
Manufacturers Authorization Certificate (As per bid format) 
3. 
Country of origin of quoted product. 
4. 
Product brochure 
5. 
Technical bid (with Make, Model and detailed scope of supply) 
6. 
Technical Compliance Statement (in tabular form) 
7. 
Product Certifications. 
8. 
Complete terms & conditions (Including warranty, CAMC, bank details, 
mode of shipment, taxes, etc.) 
9. 
Product HSN Code & Sellers GeM ID number must be mentioned in 
the technical bid. 
10. 
Details of Service Centre, (Complete Address) 
11. 
Bidders Registration Certificate, GST certificate, drug license (if applicable). 
12. 
Financial bids should be in the format provided in the CPP portal and no 
other format is acceptable. If the price bid has been given as  a  standard BoQ 
format with the tender document, then the same is to be downloaded and 
to be filled by all the bidders. 


