--- Page 29 ---
          Tender enquiry No. :   F. No 24/RT/Neonatology/NOS/629/2021-RISH (ADMN) 
 
[Type here] 
 
 
Instrument for purchase of stores 
Item: Nitric oxide delivery system 
Specification: 
1. The unit should be suitable for use in NICU, even for extremely preterm neonates.  
2. The device should be a microprocessor-controlled device. Should be the latest version 
of its kind. 
3. The system should be tested and compatible with installed range of neonatal ventilators 
in department; the test certificate of manufacturer should be enclosed.  
4. It should have battery backup of at least two hours. 
5. Delivered gas volume should be automatically and electronically adjusted to the values 
of the ventilation system via medical grade cable connection. 
6. It should be a flow proportional device with NO dosing up to 80 ppm 
7. It should have adjustable parameters: target concentration, minute volume (flow), alarm 
limits for NO and NO2. 
8. It should have settings as below: 
a. NO Concentration – 0.1 – 90 ppm + 0.2 ppm 
b. Dosing range – 13 to 17 micro litres 
c. Dosing modes – triggered or continuous 
d. Minute Volume – 0.1 – 40 lpm 
9. Monitoring (side-stream technology) should be as below: 
a. NITRIC OXIDE: Range – 0 – 90 ppm + 0.2 ppm 
b. NITRIC DIOXIDE: Range – 0 – 50 ppm + 0.2 ppm 
c. OXYGEN: 0 – 100% + 5% 
d. Flow Measurement: hot wire anemometry-based flow sensor with high flow 
range of 1 – 180 lpm and low flow range of 0.1 – 50 lpm 
10. The system should be mounted on a mobile trolley and movable from bed to bed as per 
NICU requirement. 
11. The system should have USFDA/European CE/ISO/BIS certificate and should be light 
weight (not more than 10 kg)  
12. The standard scope of supply should include the following: 
a. Main Unit with integrated battery backup  
b. NO cylinder pressure reducer with WEGA connection for medical NO gas 
mixtures 
c. Gas supply hose made of stainless steel, length of 3 m 
d. Trolley for NO unit with wire basket and holder for two gas cylinders   
e. Accessories set as below: 
i. Accessory set for neonatal use including 2x dosing tube neonate, 2x 
water trap neonate, 2x measuring tube neonate, 2x T-piece neonates 
OD10/ID10 – 50 sets each 
ii. Calibration kit – 1 (if needed) 
iii. Scavenging filters – 2 sets (if needed) 
iv. Battery – 1 set  
f. External flow meter for using with ventilators of different brands 
g. Pre-filled light-weight aluminium cylinders of nitric oxide – 6 
h. All other accessories needed for smooth running of the equipment should be 
provided at the time of purchase. 


--- Page 30 ---
          Tender enquiry No. :   F. No 24/RT/Neonatology/NOS/629/2021-RISH (ADMN) 
 
[Type here] 
 
13. The vendor should have local trained service personnel and offices. List of the same 
should be provided with names of service personnel.  
14. Company should take responsibility of refilling of cylinders as and when necessary 
within a period of 1 week with pick up and drop back service to AIIMS Rishikesh. Price 
of refilling should be frozen for a minimum period of 5 years. 
15. Comprehensive warranty for at least 5 years from date of installation with at least 3-
monthly visits for routine checking and whenever called for troubleshooting 
16. Company should ensure the supply of consumables and accessories for the period of 
warranty and CMC. 
17. Items covered under CMC: Prices of consumables and accessories should be quoted 
separately in the financial bid for the entire period of warranty and CMC. Company 
should ensure the supply of consumables and accessories for the period of warranty and 
CMC.  
18. CMC price from 6th to 10th year should be quoted separately. 
19. Onsite physical demonstration/training of the equipment to all the end users with all the 
requested facilities will be mandatory 
20. Documentation  
o User/Technical/Maintenance manuals to be supplied in English  
o Certificate of calibration and inspection from factory 
21. General requirement for Electrical safety of Medical Equipment  
22. Should have local service facility 
23. In case of technical snag/ failure the response time for Inspection within 24 Hour and 
repair within 5 days after providing a service machine. Failing which will attract penal 
action as per the decision of the Institute. 
24. The service provider should have the necessary equipment’s recommended by the 
manufacturer for installation and to carry out preventive maintenance test as per 
guidelines provided in the service/maintenance manual 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


