--- Page 21 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/T&E/19/056/OT/A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 21 of 25 
 
 
 
 ANNEXURE-IV 
S. 
No. 
Specifications of Advance Cardiac Life Support Simulator 
1. 
Technical specification of Advance Cardiac Life Support Simulator 
 
             Simulator 
 
1. Should have realistic aesthetic, easy to use, true mobility, wireless and tether less manikin. 
2. Should have Two Platforms (interchangeable genitalia) in one (Easy to convert from Female to 
Male) for teaching and training.  
 
Neurologic System  
 
1. Should have realistic eyes with reactive pupils to display different state of pupil : Normal, 
Dilated and Blown 
2. Mannequin should have simulated eyes to indicate patient condition for these ailments (e.g. 
Keyhole, Jaundice, Blood shot eye, Cataracts, Haemorrhage and Droopy Eyelid pupils etc.)  
 
Articulation 
 
1. Should have realistic articulation 
2. Should have good realistic range of motion in hips, knees, ankles, shoulders 
3. Should have Cervical motion (neck movement) for practice of patient stabilization  
 
Airway (Should allow practice of following techniques) 
 
1. Bag valve mask (BVM) ventilation 
2. Orotracheal and nasotracheal intubation 
3. Endotracheal, retrograde and fiberopatic intubation and placement of various airway adjuncts 
4. Transtracheal jet ventilation 
5. Needle and surgical Cricothyrotomy 
6. Tracheostomy 
7. Right mainstem intubation and detection 
8. Stomach distention with esophageal intubation 
9. Laryngospasm  
 
Breathing 
 
1. It should have spontaneous breathing 
2. It should have bilateral and unilateral chest rise and fall 
3. It should have lung auscultation sites on anterior chest 
4. It should have upper airway sounds: Stridor and Gurgling, Crepts etc.  
5. It should allow practice of bilateral needle decompression and simulation like decreased airway 
at one side of chest 
 
CPR 
 
1. It should be complaint with 2015 AHA guidelines, ERC guidelines and other etc 
2. It should have realistic chest compression depth and resistance and able to detect wrong CPR 
methodology. 
3. It should have CPR performance metrics that detects hand placement, rate and depth of 
compressions, recoil, ventilations and ventilation: compression ratio IM Medication 
Administration 
4. It should have intramuscular sites: e. g. Deltoid and bilateral Vastus lateralis, gluteal  
 
 


--- Page 22 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/T&E/19/056/OT/A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 22 of 25 
 
 
Cardiac 
 
1. It should have 4 lead ECG monitoring with real patient monitor 
2. It should have 12 – Lead dynamic ECG display 
3. It should have Defibrillation, cardioversion and pacing using real equipment  
 
Circulation  
 
1. It should have unilateral blood pressure measurement by auscultation and palpation 
2. It should have carotid and femoral pulses simulation 
3. It should have radial and brachial pulses simulation 
4. It should have variable pulse strength based on patient condition  
 
Sounds 
 
1. It should have properties of auscultation of normal and abnormal heart, lung and bowel sound 
2. It should have simulated stethoscope for auscultation of Heart, Lung and Bowel sounds.  
3. It should have audio communication between manikin and operator  
 
Vascular Access 
 
1. It should have U/L /B/L cannulation at antecubital and dorsum of hand 
2. It should have ultrasound training module insert for IV cannulation / PICC  
 
Urinary 
 
1. Should allow practice of urinary catheterization 
2. It should have interchangeable genitalia  
 
It should be supplied complete with:  
 
1. Simulator – 1 nos. 
2. Wireless simulated stethoscope – 2 nos. 
3. Tablet (good qualities, large screen) with integrated software for running simulator and creating 
various patient scenarios – 1 nos. 
4. Simulated Eyes – 1 nos. 
5. Simulated Defib – 1 nos. 
6. Monitor / TV Screen 55” and remote – 1 nos.  
7. Ultrasound training model insert for peripheral and central IV cannulation and infusion – 1 nos.  
8. Consumables 02 set (IV Hand Injecting Site, IV Elbow Injection Site, Deltoid Injection, Thigh 
Injection adult, Full Length Sleeve, Neck band, Crico Tape, IV Replacement Tubing Kit) 
9. Preconfigured clinical scenarios:  
 Cardiopulmonary Arrest 
 Closed Head Injury and Pneumothorax 
 Heroin Overdose 
 Inferior-Posterior Myocardial Infarction 
 Sepsis with Hypotension (septic shock) 
 Stroke  
 hypovolemic shock 
 Cardiac tamponade 
 Dehydration 
10. Chest tube manikin 01 nos.  
a) Manikin should have standard posture with lifelike anatomical landmarks including sternum, 
clavicle, ribs, pleura, anterior-superior iliac spine, umbilicus, tibial tuberosity malleolus 
b) The one side of the manikin should have 1 – 2 cut-away viewing areas to provide awareness 
of the anatomical relationships between skin surface, musculature, ribs, veins, nerves and 
lungs 


--- Page 23 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/T&E/19/056/OT/A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 23 of 25 
 
c) Should have at-least two puncture sites including Pneumothorax centesis in the second 
intercostals space in the midclavicular line; and Thoracic closed drainage in the sixth 
intercostals space between the linea posterior-axillary and midaxillary. 
d) Should simulates pneumothorax with various liquids for thoracic closed drainage;  
e) Should have replaceable skin pad 
f) Should be supplied complete with Chest Tube Manikin, Liquid bag, Pump bulb 
 
11. Ultrasound central line training model 
 Model should have ultra-durable tissue should be realistic in ultrasound imaging 
characteristics, feels and cannulates like real human tissue 
 Should be realisticcentral venous access ultrasound training model excellent for training 
radiologists in the psychomotor skills associated with ultrasound guided central venous access 
procedures 
 Should have ultra-durable good quality self-healing tissue, extremely realistic in ultrasound 
imaging characteristics and feels like real human tissue 
 Should contain anatomically correct vascular anatomy of the upper thorax and neck including 
internal jugular vein, brachiocephalic vein, subclavian vein, axillary vein, carotid artery, 
subsclavian artery, and axillary artery as well as anatomical landmarks including the trachea, 
clavicle, two head of the sternocleidomastoid muscle, manubrium and the sternal notch, 
nipples 
 Positive fluid flow in the vessels should provide users with immediate feedback when vessels 
are accessed.  
 It should have “give-away” feeling on IV catheter insertion. 
 Simulated blood fluid in the arterial vessels should differ from the venous system allowing for 
user to easily verity successful venous access procedures  
 Tissues should match the acoustic characteristics of real human tissue. 
 Arterial pulsations are simulated using a provided integrated automated pumping system.  
 
 
Instructions for Online Bid Submission: 
The bidders are required to submit soft copies of their bids electronically on the CPP Portal, using 
valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions given below are meant to assist the bidders in 
registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in accordance with the requirements and submitting 
their bids online on the CPP Portal.  
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at: 
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. 
REGISTRATION 
1) Bidders are required to enroll on the e-Procurement module of the Central Public Procurement 
Portal (URL: https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on the link “Online bidder 
Enrolment” on the CPP Portal which is free of charge. 
2) As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique username and 
assign a password for their accounts.  
3) Bidders are advised to register their valid email address and mobile numbers as part of the 
registration process. These would be used for any communication from the CPP Portal.  
4) Upon enrolment, the bidders will be required to register their valid Digital Signature Certificate  
(Class II or Class III Certificates with signing key usage) issued by any Certifying Authority 
recognized by CCA India (e.g. Sify/nCode / eMudhra etc.), with their profile. 
5) Only one valid DSC should be registered by a bidder. Please note that the bidders are 
responsible to ensure that they do not lend their DSC’s to others which may lead to misuse. 


