--- Page 10 ---
Tender for High End Ultrasound Machine 
Admn/Tender/28/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
Technical Specifications – Premium End, Top of the Line, Color Doppler Ultrasound System with 
Shear Wave Elastography.The system must be upgradable to a fusion ultrasound system. 
System should be State of art, top of the Line Premium End Fully Digital with Broadband Digital 
Beam Former.  
The system design should be compliant with Green Emission Product specification.  
The system should comply with standards of Environmentally Conscious Products (ECP). Certificate 
to be attached.  
US FDA & CE compliant . Also mention year of launch.  
The system should have high density Beam Former technology and should be able to handle 
independent processing channel for each receiving information from transducer.  
The system should have minimum 192 hardware channels and 65000 or more digitally processing 
channels. Original manufacturing letter to be attached for confirming above channel numbers if not 
available in Technical data sheet. 
The system should perform up to 1000 frames/sec. or more. Also system should support transducers 
of frequency range from 1-17Mhz.  
The system should have region specific presets like Adult Abdomen, Pediatric Abdomen, TV/TR, 
Gyn, Small Parts, Musculoskeletal and vascular presets. All presets should be customized according 
to the user.  
The system should have Quick View mode for 2D & CDI Preset selection during exam and 
minimum 8 sub presets for 2D &CDI Modes.  
The system panel height should be adjustable according to the user comfort.  
The Panel should have Swivel and In/Out Control for Maximum User Comfort.  
The system should have latest generation /pulse subtraction / Pulse Inversion Tissue Harmonic 
Imaging for better contrast and reduced side lobe artifact.  
System Should have Receiving End Frequency and Spatial Compound Imaging Technology for 
reducing Clinical Artifacts and  
Compound Imaging Should work in all the Probes  
Compound Imaging should be possible on Color and Doppler Modes .  
Transducers operate in Trapezoid format with and without compound imaging.  
Multiparametric Image Optimization: The system shall automatically and intelligently optimize key 
imaging parameters in real-time, maintaining image uniformity across tissue types with minimal 
adjustments as soon as the transducer is placed on the patient.  
The system should have 256 gray scales.  
The System should have 2D and spectral Doppler image optimization with a push of a button and 
auto-refresh function. Should be compatible with other advanced imaging options.  
Up to 10X digital zoom should be available, on live, frozen, cine, dual screen images-Preserves full 
image resolution within the zoom ROI.HD zoom should be available.  
The System should have THREE active transducer ports or more.  
The system should display Thumbnails on a Clipboard while scanning to facilitate exams.  
The User can select either Bigger Screen only Ultrasound Image or With Thumbnail with Live 
Ultrasound Images.  
The system should be Upgradable to User Configurable Protocol for Applications such as OBGYN/ 
Vascular etc. for system operation. The following automation should include the protocol:  
Automatic set up of Imaging Controls & Modes.  
Manual/Automatic steering in B Mode/ CDI/PW Doppler.  
Initiation and auto completion of required measurements etc.  
The System Should High Dynamic range of 200db or more. Higher Dynamic range will be preferred 
please specify range.  


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for High End Ultrasound Machine 
Admn/Tender/28/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
The system should have Power Doppler Imaging mode with directions.  
The system should have PW Doppler & HPRF mode for all transducers 0.3 to 34 KHz.  
Specify Color Velocity Scale Selection.  
Pw Sample Gate selection should be 1mm to 20mm or more.  
The Minimum Imaging Depth should be 30 cm or more and should be selectable by user. 
The system should have US FDA approved Real Time Elastography (strain and shear wave) for 
Liver, thyroid Breast, Prostate Applications. Also the Following feature’s Available in the 
Elastography:  
During Elasto mode, Reference 2D Mode should display side by side. After Freeze best cycle 
selected from cine mode reference of Compression Wave.  
Elastography should be Velocity based, The System should able to measure by ON LINE the 
Stiffness of Tissue and Compare with Normal Tissue, and Ratio should be calculated between 
Reference Tissue vs Target Tissue.  
Convex and linear probe and Endocavity Probes Should Support strain elastography for all 
applications including Prostate Elastography. Necessary Software should be Built In  
Convex and linear probes should offer shear wave elastography for abdominal ,breast,and thyroid etc 
applications.  
System should be able to generate a color coded elastogram with a reference adjustable elasticity 
scale for each application.  
System should be able to display simultaneously both color coded elastogram and corresponding B-
Mode image in real time for performing elastography guided biopsies/FNAC.  
There should be user adjustable elasticity box size with a Display Depth: 0-8cm.  
Elastography quantification should be available with pixel accurate absolute or discreet Elasticity 
values on all transducers.  
Elastography quantification tool should be able to provide Mean, Max, Median & Min elasticity 
values of the tissues in both m/s or kPA on all transducers.  
System should have integrated report worksheet for Liver elasticity assessment.  
The system shall provide Color coded stiffness map with 4 color display modes Color, size, strain 
ratio, shear velocity.  
Maximum Shear wave velocity 10m/s; Minimum Depth shear-wave imaging should be 16cm; 
Minimum depth shear-wave quantification should be 8cm.  
System should offer custom tissue imaging to improve lateral and contrast resolution in breast 
imaging by modifying the speed of sound for fatty breast and adipose tissue.  
The System Should have advanced Contrast Package available.  
During contrast examination the system should be able to Display Wash In, retention and wash out 
information in the lesion with Time intensity curves.  
The system offer user selectable tint maps to allow enhanced visual conspicuity of contrast agent.  
The System should have Contrast Quantification package so that it able to measure the arrival time 
of contrast agent at any point of time.  
The system shall provide a toolbox of at least five contrast imaging technologies:  
a. - detection of the fundamental response of the CM  
b. - detection of the harmonic response of the CM  
c. - agent destruction imaging  
d. - contrast capture imaging  
e. - micro-bubble destruction imaging  
The system shall offer contrast imaging package with Contrast Harmonic and Quantification.  
CPS & CHI Switching Between Contrast Modes:  
Should offer low MI contrast agent imaging techniques and provides highly sensitive agent detection 
with outstanding enhancement information System should have Biopsy Enhancement mode for 
better Needle Insertion and Multiple Enhancement Level Adjustment should be possible.  


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for High End Ultrasound Machine 
Admn/Tender/28/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
The System should have 3D and live 3D/4D acquisition possible with Volume convex probe along 
with Multiplanar rendering, TUI and Curved MPR capabilities.  
The system should have advanced DICOM Modalities work list  
Sophisticated Ergonomics:  
A flexible multi joint arm supports the LCD monitor, allowing appropriate positioning for operations 
in the standing or sitting posture to be achieved easily.  
Monitor: 
Monitor should be high resolution, 19” (inch) or more Back Lit LED/ LCD Monitor with 
1080 x1080 matrix or more. Please specify resolution range with IPS technology. 
Console:  
The freely programmable, mode-sensitive 10” or more Color Touch Command Screen which 
enables direct access to all basic and advanced system controls.  
Convenient transducer trays on both sides should put. up to Six transducers within easy reach in any 
scanning position.  
Basic and advanced quantification functions should be activated directly on the programmable 
console.  
All Mode keys concisely arranged with multi-gain controller should enable direct access to all 
imaging modes.  
A retractable alphanumeric keyboard should be available to manually enter comments or patient data  
Control panel can be moved horizontally and vertically according to user comfort  
Integrated gel warmer.  
Data management:  
A large-capacity minimum 1TB HDD should be provided in the standard configuration, facilitating 
efficient management of acquired images. Images can be viewed in Image Review Mode. Also cine 
memory of more than 2000 frames should be available.  
Filed images can have output via the USB port (USB Memory or USB HDD) or stored on CD/DVD 
by Image Management.  
Should be able to integrate with the then existing PACS in the institute with no extra cost.  
Measurements and Calculations:  
Auto measurement should be possible on frozen images and Images Recalled from the Image 
archive.  
The System should have Comprehensive set of Measurements in OB/ Gyn/ Carotid/ Lower Limb/ 
Upper Limb / Thyroid / Testis / Abdominal Applications  
Template customization should be possible.  
On Board Report for all Packages – Report transfer to Print Page along with Selected Images will be 
Printed using normal PC Printer.  
Following Probes should be supplied along with system:  
1.Convex Probe with Band width of 1MHz to 5MHz OR MORE with Biopsy Guide for Abdominal 
applications and Support for Strain and Shear wave Elastography 
2.High Frequency Convex Probe with Band width of 5MHz to 8MHz for Pediatric and Neonatal 
Radiology.  
3.Linear matrix probe of 5 to 9 MHz with Biopsy guide and should support Strain, Shear wave 
Elastography and contrast imaging applications 
4.Dedicated Trans-Rectal/Trans vaginal Probe with Band width of 4MHz to 9MHz OR MORE with 
Biopsy Guide and should Support for Strain Elastography  
5.Convex volume probe with frequency 1-7 MHz for 3D/4D applications. 
6.Transcranial Doppler probe(1-4 MhZ). 
Price of the following probes to be quoted as optional. The same will be frozen for a period of 5 
years: 
Linear probe of 7-17 MHz with strain elastography for musculoskeletal and small part applications 


