--- Page 17 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/19/03-273/OT/A 
 
Page 17 of 18 
ANNEXURE-I 
Detailed Technical Specification for “OSMOMETER” for  
Department of Biochemistry at AIIMS Raipur. 
S. N. 
Item Description 
Qty. 
1. 
OSMOMETER: 
1. The machine should be based on the principle of freezing point measurement with a linear 
measuring range between 0 and 3000mOsmol/kg. 
2. The machine should have facility for three point calibration for better accuracy and 
reliable results and with selectivity for two point as a standard feature. 
3. Provision should exist for automatic calibration which must be easy to perform, and 
calibration should be stable for a long period. 
4. The sample cooling should be with high capacity air cooled peltier, without need for 
cooling liquid for dissipation of heat, or involving maintenance.  
5. The nominal sample volume should be 50µl. 
6. The measurement should be completed within a minute for handling higher workloads and 
serial measurements 
7. Should have LCD touch screen for easy control, convenience in operation and step by step 
user guidance. 
8. Should have automation with (i) the initiation of the crystallisation, (ii) detection of the 
measuring value, (iii) storage and (iv) calibration for precise and reproducible results. 
9. The resolution of the measurement should be one mOsmol/kg , over the entire range of 
measurement. 
10. The reproducibility should be within 2mOsmol/kg or better, and applicable over the range 
of 0 to 400 mOsmol/kg, and at least 4 mOsmol/kg in range of 400 to 3000 mOsmol/kg. 
11. Automatic error detection with the clear indication of messages in the final results being 
reported. 
12. Should have provision for optional built-in printer, graphic, non thermal type, dot matrix 
with date, time and sample data. 
13. The machine should have standard equipment features communication through DTR 
RS232 serial port, USB and barcode scanner port thereby offering extensive and flexible 
data handing possibilities. 
14. The machine should be provided with a Suitable UPS to provide an uninterrupted power 
supply for 30 minutes during power failure. 
15. The company must bear the charges during installation and commissioning of the whole 
system. 
16. The system should have 5 years warranty on whole system, parts and accessories: like 
Printer, UPS & batteries.  
17. CMC must be quoted separately. 
18. After expiry of warranty, the CMC shall be automatically started. The supplier should take 
responsibility for maintenance of the whole system. 
19. The company should also quote the price of the consumables, calibrators, controls and 
cleaning reagents in order to freeze the price of the items. 
20. System shall be quoted under optional extra (i) consumables to run 1000 samples 
including sample cups, calibrators, controls, printer paper, and (ii) recommended 
maintenance kit with value not exceeding 5% of the cost of the machine, for trouble free 
operation (iii) suitable stabilizer. 
21. The supplier must provide PO and customer satisfactory certificate from Institution of 
National importance. 
01 
Set. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


