--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Echocardiography Machine (High End)                                                       Admn/Tender/110/2016-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Echocardi
ography 
Machine 
(High 
End) 
1. Latest generation, highest end & technologically advanced Digital Live 3D 
Echocardiography system for Transthoracic adult, paediatric cardiac 
applications. System should be capable of LIVE 3D imaging in 
transesophageal applications. Any other model other than the highest end 
and latest version is liable for rejection. 
2. System should have minimum 100,000 or more digitally scalable channels 
for simultaneous formation, acquisition and processing of multiple 
ultrasound beams and has a system architecture to process an entire 
bandwidth of frequencies from 1MHz to 17 MHz. System should support 
pulse coding and pulse shaping technologies. Please mention number of 
digital channels in technical bid. Please attach a letter from manufacturer 
along with the technical bid clearly stating the number of digitally 
processed channels on the offered system, failing which the bid is liable 
for rejection. 
3. System should have a dynamic range of minimum 180 dB so that variety 
of patient sizes can be handled without compromise. Please mention 
dynamic range in the technical bid with supporting specification sheet. 
4. System should be capable of supporting LIVE 3D matrix transducer 
capable of supporting upto 2000 elements for exceptional LIVE 3D image 
quality on the matrix array transducer. Separate LIVE 3D Matrix 
Transducers for both adult and pediatric applications should be offered as 
standard. The footprint size of the pediatric matrix transducer should be 
lesser than the adult matrix transducer and frequency of the paediatric 
matrix transducer should be higher. 
5. System should be capable of scanning depth of 30 cm. Scanning depth 
should be clearly mentioned in the technical quote. 
6. System should offer LIVE X – Plane imaging with manipulation of 
orthogonal plane-lateral, elevation and rotation should be possible. 
Elevation beam steering should be possible so that ideal en-face views for 
measurements can be obtained without moving the transducer. 
7. System should have LIVE- 3D Echocardiography capability with Color 
Flow Imaging. 
8. System should have extremely high Resolution 2D Imaging, Colour Flow 
Imaging, M Mode, PW Doppler, CW Doppler, Duplex & Triplex Modes. 
9. Should have good Tissue Harmonic Imaging for improved Image quality. 
10. Should have the state of the art Transmit Real Time Compound Imaging 
Technology with Multiple transmitted lines of sight, wherein multiple 
Coplanar Images from different viewing angles are obtained and combined 
into a single combined image at real-time frame rates for improved 
visualization & better image quality in vascular Imaging & to virtually 
clean up the images of artifacts. 
11. Should have advanced Image Processing algorithms to analyse between 
targets and artifacts so as to sharpen target anatomy and reduce the speckle 
& artifacts for improved image quality. 
12. Should have advanced Tissue Doppler imaging with high frame rate 
acquisition of more than 300 frames per second. 
13. Should be able to perform advanced quantification measurements like 
strain & Strain Rate Quantification. Should measure the myocardial 
velocity and derives the strain rate and strain along user defined M-lines, 
capable of drawing up to 3 M-lines at a time, capable of sub-dividing each 
M-line into 8 sub-regions or according to user defined sub-region sizes, 
point of interest tool obtains values from any point on the M mode display. 
In addition to the Tissue Doppler based strain system, should have 2D 
01 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Echocardiography Machine (High End)                                                       Admn/Tender/110/2016-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
Based strain like VVI, AFT and TMQ should be offered. These should be 
offered both OFF-LINE as well as online. OFF-LINE workstation (Both 
hardware and software) should be offered and highlighted in the technical 
bid. 
14. Should be able to perform MPR views for Quantification from 3D Imaging 
on Volume measurements like LV volumes, Ejection fraction from 3D 
Image, etc. Also should offer 3D synchronicity indicates to measure and 
compare timing of maximum contraction of regional LV volumes to 
determine those patients who will best benefit from CRT system. Should 
display global LV volume and should provide simultaneous display of 17 
regional volume waveform. This should be offered both OFFLINE as well 
as online. OFF-LINE workstation (Both hardware and software) should be 
offered and highlighted in the technical bid. 
15. The quantification capabilities should be offered OFF-LINE only as 
system time doesn’t get blocked. The system images should be transferred 
through DICOM to the OFF-LINE licensed workstation. The workstation 
should have a DICOM Image Management System Software loaded so as 
to print images through a Colour laser printer. 
16. Should have great ergonomic design, with dual touch control panel of 
minimum size 10-11 inches, which is comfortable and convenient to avoid 
user muscle strain & stress injuries. System should have a 19-inch high 
resolution flat panel medical grade display monitor with nearly infinite 
position adjustment. 
17. System should have at least four imaging universal active probe ports with 
electronic switching facility from keyboard without probe adaptor. 
18. Should have on-board workstation for storage and review of all exams, 2D, 
3D Images, loops, etc 
19. System should have DICOM 3.0 print and store service classes with 
support for modality, work list, perform procedure set up, storage commit. 
20. System should allow storing of cropped 3D images which can be recalled 
and re-cropped later. 
21. System should have inbuilt Image Management facility with facility for 
direct storage of Images and loops in the Hard Disk Drive and also 
thumbnail review to view & edit Images, loops and also reports. 
22. System should have storage facility of images, loops in the hard disk drive 
of 5 TB or more. System should be able to transfer Images & clips to CD 
& DVD media. 
23.  Should be offered with the following: 
a. Adult Echo Transducer with frequency ranging from 1-5 MHz. 
This transducer should have either single crystal technology or pure 
wave technology for excellent Image quality on difficult to image 
patients. Please mention the crystal technology used in the 
transducer. Systems offered with normal transducers for adult echo 
are liable for rejection. 
b. Pediatric Echo Transducer with frequency ranging from 3-8 MHz. 
c. Neonatal Echo Transducer with frequency ranging from 4-10 MHz 
d. Linear Array Transducer with frequency ranging from 3-11 MHz 
for vascular applications. 
e. Convex Array Matrix Transducer for adult LIVE 3D with 
frequency ranging from 1-5 MHz. 
f. Live 3D Echo Matrix Transducer for Adult LIVE 3D with 
frequency ranging from 1-5 MHz. 
g. TEE transducer for Adult (Live 3D/4D) & Pediatric (2D) 
Echocardiography - 01 No. transducer each. 
h. Integrated stress echo facility to perform stress echo exams. 
i. Contrast Harmonic Imaging should be offered as standard on the 


--- Page 13 ---
Tender for Echocardiography Machine (High End)                                                       Admn/Tender/110/2016-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
 
 
 
system, with optimization for Low and HI MI applications. Should 
also have facility of Low MI with triggered replenishment Imaging. 
j. Latest PC (off-line licensed workstation) with licensed software for 
analyzing and quantification of 2D and 3D data sets, CD writer 
with Image Management Software and colour laser Printer should 
be offered. PC should be offered with a flat panel 17 inch display 
monitor. (Hardware essential for OFFLINE Quantification) 
k. Latest B/W Thermal Printer. 
l. 3KVA online UPS with a backup of 30 min minimum, from any 
reputed brand. 
m. Spare parts and maintenance should be available for at least 10 
years from the manufacturer. 
n. Local service facility should be available in Jodhpur or Jaipur. 
 
Terms and Conditions: 
1. The system should be US FDA approved. 
2. Warranty: -There would be warranty for five years. If any part of the 
equipment is not covered under warranty the vendor must provide advance 
information.  The cost of disposable accessories (if any) should be quoted 
separately.  The Quoted price will be fixed for a period of five years. 
3. Comprehensive Maintenance Contract:  In addition to warranty for five 
years, the vendor should quote the price of comprehensive Maintenance 
Contract (labour + spares) (CMC) for five years post warranty.  The price 
quoted for the 5 years CMC would be considered for the comparison of the 
total price and to determine the inter-se ranking of the bids.  However, the 
CMC price will only be paid during the actual period of service under 
contract. 
4. It will be responsibility of the vendor to submit proposal of CMC at least 6 
months before expiry of warranty of previous CMC. 
5. In the technical bid, the product should be quoted with a set of standard 
accessories.  The price bid must clearly state the accessories included.  The 
price of optional accessories should be quoted separately. 
6. The product or its earlier model should have been marketed in the national 
and international market for at least 5 years. 
7. The parent company should certify that the quoted product is not going to 
be out of assembly line for at least three years from date of quotation. 
8. The parent company should give the undertaking to provide the spares 
during the warranty and CMC period if required. 
9. If the equipment is software based, and the new software is introduced 
within five years the up gradation will be provided free of cost 
10. Demonstration: The Department may ask for demonstration of actual 
quoted product or even for trial use. 
11. Training: The necessary training of the personnel for the use of the 
equipment will be provided by the company/vendor.  The vendor must 
mention the type of training i.e. on site or abroad and number of persons. 
12. Compliance statement.  The vendor must provide, in tabular form a 
comparative chart of the required technical specification and technical 
specification of the quoted product.  The vendor must give the relevant 
page number and paragraph number, in their literature regarding that 
technical information in the technical bid.  Merely stating “complies” or 
“meets requirement” will lead to assumption that the quoted product does 
not have the required feature. 


