--- Page 17 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/ANAT/18/64/OT 
 
Page 17 of 20 
 
Annexure I 
Specification of Wireless EMG System for Department of Anatomy  
1. Should be able to work in Lab and Field studies (Portable & easy to carry).  
2. Should be supplied with a Charging/Receiving console that communicates with the utility 
software which should automatically recognize the sensor status for charging, recording and 
signal strength. 
3. System should be able to record 8 channel EMG signals simultaneously and should be 
upgradable to 16 channels. 
4. RF Transmitting Range: - 40 meters or more.  
5. Should be able to record for at least 6 Hrs on a single charge. 
6. Should also have Bluetooth for data transmission for portable mobile devices for field 
kinematic applications. 
7. Each EMG sensor should come with in-built DOF tri-axial accelerometer, gyro and 
magnetometer signals. 
8. Sensors should have illuminated indicators for video tracking purposes.  
9. High ADC resolution of 16 Bits or more. 
10. High sampling rate of 2 KHz or more with a facility of variable sampling rate on each 
channel.   
11. Should have software controlled filtering High Pass, Low Pass filters, AC Coupling, Digital 
filters, band pass filter & Main filters.   
12. The software should have built in smart analysis features like RMS, power spectrum, 
template matching, curve fitting, cross correlation etc.      
13. Export formats should allow export MATLAB, Text etc. 
14. Cyclic Measurements: Rate, period, frequency, count, minimum, maximum, height, integral,   
variance, derivative etc. 
15. Should provide Small size lightweight wireless EMG Sensors (Qty 8). 
16. Should offer artifact free high fidelity EMG signals with fixed spacing electrodes of less than 
or equal to 1 cm apart to reduce the crosstalk. 
17. Software should offer Software development kit(SDK) or Application programming 
interface(API) for easy integration to third party applications like MATLAB®, LabView™, 
Google® Android™ -based mobile devices, Windows (C# or C), and Linux. 
18. Twenty-Four acceleration signals accelerometer sensitivity of ± 1.5g or ±6g. 
19. System should have Wireless EKG sensors (Qty 1).  
20. System should have wireless twin axis Goniometric Sensors (Qty 2) along with its required 
accessories. 
21. System should come with wireless Four Channel Force Sensitive Resistor Sensors (Qty 2). 
22. Compatible Laptop i5 configurations should be given with the system. 
23. Consumables:- Adhesive strips electrodes and ECG electrodes (1000 each). 
24. Company should have dedicated support personnel for application training and support.         
25. Demonstration & Training free of cost at the site by company experts after supply of items. 
26. Warranty 1 year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


