--- Page 17 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Radiotherapy/18/11912/A/OT 
 
Page 17 of 21 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
DETAILED TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR 
Marker Free Patient Monitoring System 
 
The  Marker Free Patient Monitoring System should necessarily comply with the following technical 
specification:. 
1.The system has to be compatible with the Linear Accelerator (Mode:Versa HD,Make:Elekta) and the CT 
Simulator Unit (Model:Option CT 580 W,Make:GE) both in terms of  hardware and software and interface 
to Elekta MOSAIQ for synchronization of patient selection and control.It should also have multi-vendor 
interface so that it is compitable with LINAC unit of different make and model thay may be procured by the 
institution in future. 
2.The system must utilize laser based or optical  non-invasive surface scanning technique using steroscopic 
cameras/scanning units for tumour  movement tracking during respiration without the use of external 
fiducials and generating 4D CT images to be used for contouring,planning and final patient treatment.There 
shall be separate modules for CT simulator & Linac in the Marker Free System. 
3.For daily patient positioning,optical surface scanning has the potential advantage when compared with the 
patient positioning  based on skin markers,such as an increased accuracy within the body region where no 
skin marks are drawn.For DIBH techniques also optical surface scanning enables fast and reliable tratment 
during daily clinical routine without the need for invasive procedures. 
4.The system must have all the necessary ancillary  tools including goggles for audio-visual coaching the 
patient for reproducible gating signals.Also the daily chech QA device for verification of system functioning  
should be provided.  
5.Database server software for using the marker free monitoring system in networked multiuser interface. 
6.Software module for monitoring generating and implementing the gating signal. 
7.Software module for interactive patient positioning and verification using non-rigid registration with 
deformable algorithms. 
8.Software module for tracking of patient motion using non rigid registration with deformable algorithms. 
9.The system should have DICOM interface to allow import and export of patient images and surface scans. 
10.The Marker free patient monitoring system should support different gating modes like breathhold,ddep 
inspiration & coached/free breathing. 
11.The Marker Free System should exhibit long term stability (submillimeter) in positional accuracy. 
12.The storage and processing speed of the software module should be sufficient for smooth workflow of a 
typical busy Radiotherapy department. 
 Terms and Conditions: 
1.A minimum of 5 Years CMC  after warranty period  of the equipment must be provided. 
2.Onsite training and obervational  training to 2  Radiation Oncologists & 1 Medical Physicist. 
 
 
 


