--- Page 10 ---
Tender for High End Ultrasound Machine 
Admn/Tender/29/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
Technical Specifications – Premium End, Top of the Line, Color Doppler Ultrasound System with 
Shear Wave Elastography. 
System should be State of art, top of the Line Premium End Fully Digital with Broadband Digital 
Beam Former.  
The system design should be compliant with Green Emission Product specification.  
The system should comply with standards of Environmentally Conscious Products (ECP). 
Certificate to be attached.  
US FDA & CE compliant . Also mention year of launch.  
The system should have high density Beam Former technology and should be able to handle 
independent processing channel for each receiving information from transducer.  
The system should have minimum 192 hardware channels and 65000 or more digitally processing 
channels. Original manufacturing letter to be attached for confirming above channel numbers if not 
available in Technical data sheet. 
The system should perform up to 1000 frames/sec. or more. Also system should support 
transducers of frequency range from 1-17Mhz.  
The system should have region specific presets like Adult Abdomen, Pediatric Abdomen, TV/TR, 
Gyn, Small Parts, Musculoskeletal and vascular presets. All presets should be customized 
according to the user.  
The system should have Quick View mode for 2D & CDI Preset selection during exam and 
minimum 8 sub presets for 2D &CDI Modes.  
The system panel height should be adjustable according to the user comfort.  
The Panel should have Swivel and In/Out Control for Maximum User Comfort.  
The system should have latest generation /pulse subtraction / Pulse Inversion Tissue Harmonic 
Imaging for better contrast and reduced side lobe artifact.  
System Should have Receiving End Frequency and Spatial Compound Imaging Technology for 
reducing Clinical Artifacts and  
Compound Imaging Should work in all the Probes  
Compound Imaging should be possible on Color and Doppler Modes .  
Transducers operate in Trapezoid format with and without compound imaging.  
Multiparametric Image Optimization: The system shall automatically and intelligently optimize 
key imaging parameters in real-time, maintaining image uniformity across tissue types with 
minimal adjustments as soon as the transducer is placed on the patient.  
The system should have 256 gray scales.  
The System should have 2D and spectral Doppler image optimization with a push of a button and 
auto-refresh function. Should be compatible with other advanced imaging options.  
Up to 10X digital zoom should be available, on live, frozen, cine, dual screen images-Preserves full 
image resolution within the zoom ROI.HD zoom should be available.  
The System should have THREE active transducer ports or more.  
The system should display Thumbnails on a Clipboard while scanning to facilitate exams.  
The User can select either Bigger Screen only Ultrasound Image or With Thumbnail with Live 
Ultrasound Images.  
The system should be Upgradable to User Configurable Protocol for Applications such as 
OBGYN/ Vascular etc. for system operation. The following automation should include the 
protocol:  
Automatic set up of Imaging Controls & Modes.  
Manual/Automatic steering in B Mode/ CDI/PW Doppler.  
Initiation and auto completion of required measurements etc.  
The System Should High Dynamic range of 200db or more. Higher Dynamic range will be 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for High End Ultrasound Machine 
Admn/Tender/29/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
preferred please specify range.  
The system should have Power Doppler Imaging mode with directions.  
The system should have PW Doppler & HPRF mode for all transducers 0.3 to 34 KHz.  
Specify Color Velocity Scale Selection.  
Pw Sample Gate selection should be 1mm to 20mm or more.  
The Minimum Imaging Depth should be 30 cm or more and should be selectable by user. 
The system should have US FDA approved Real Time Elastography (strain and shear wave) for 
Liver, thyroid Breast, Prostate Applications. Also the Following feature’s Available in the 
Elastography:  
During Elasto mode, Reference 2D Mode should display side by side. After Freeze best cycle 
selected from cine mode reference of Compression Wave.  
Elastography should be Velocity based, The System should able to measure by ON LINE the 
Stiffness of Tissue and Compare with Normal Tissue, and Ratio should be calculated between 
Reference Tissue vs Target Tissue.  
Convex and linear probe and Endocavity Probes Should Support strain elastography for all 
applications including Prostate Elastography. Necessary Software should be Built In  
Convex and linear probes should offer shear wave elastography for abdominal ,breast,and thyroid 
etc applications.  
System should be able to generate a color coded elastogram with a reference adjustable elasticity 
scale for each application.  
System should be able to display simultaneously both color coded elastogram and corresponding 
B-Mode image in real time for performing elastography guided biopsies/FNAC.  
There should be user adjustable elasticity box size with a Display Depth: 0-8cm.  
Elastography quantification should be available with pixel accurate absolute or discreet Elasticity 
values on all transducers.  
Elastography quantification tool should be able to provide Mean, Max, Median & Min elasticity 
values of the tissues in both m/s or kPA on all transducers.  
System should have integrated report worksheet for Liver elasticity assessment.  
The system shall provide Color coded stiffness map with 4 color display modes Color, size, strain 
ratio, shear velocity.  
Maximum Shear wave velocity 10m/s; Minimum Depth shear-wave imaging should be 16cm; 
Minimum depth shear-wave quantification should be 8cm.  
System should offer custom tissue imaging to improve lateral and contrast resolution in breast 
imaging by modifying the speed of sound for fatty breast and adipose tissue.  
The System Should have advanced Contrast Package available.  
During contrast examination the system should be able to Display Wash In, retention and wash out 
information in the lesion with Time intensity curves.  
The system offer user selectable tint maps to allow enhanced visual conspicuity of contrast agent.  
The System should have Contrast Quantification package so that it able to measure the arrival time 
of contrast agent at any point of time.  
The system shall provide a toolbox of at least five contrast imaging technologies:  
a. - detection of the fundamental response of the CM  
b. - detection of the harmonic response of the CM  
c. - agent destruction imaging  
d. - contrast capture imaging  
e. - micro-bubble destruction imaging  
The system shall offer contrast imaging package with Contrast Harmonic and Quantification.  
CPS & CHI Switching Between Contrast Modes:  


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for High End Ultrasound Machine 
Admn/Tender/29/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
Should offer low MI contrast agent imaging techniques and provides highly sensitive agent 
detection with outstanding enhancement information System should have Biopsy Enhancement 
mode for better Needle Insertion and Multiple Enhancement Level Adjustment should be possible.  
System should have Real-time, Fusion Imaging allowing to locate difficult lesions faster and to 
navigate complex anatomy securely, while carrying out invasive procedures. 
a.     For a comprehensive pre- and post-interventional evaluation System should allow to work in 
any ultrasound imaging mode including color Doppler and contrast-enhanced ultrasound etc 
b.    System should have provision to show innovative navigation tool showing 3D reconstructed 
data for intuitive probe positioning in quad view. 
  
c.     The System should have Dual view. 
d.    System should able to view the Real time Ultrasound images overlapped with reference 
CT/MR image like Blend Imaging. 
  
e.     The System should have Blend Image Brightness control to CT/Ultrasound data. 
  
f.     The System should have Sensor based 3D Information for Convex and Linear probes. 
  
g.    The Fusion Registration can be done simple two step operation of Angle and Position 
synchronization. 
  
h.     The System should enable Quad display of live ultrasound with pre-loaded CT or MR data, 
Blend Image (CT/MR Overlapped with Ultrasound), Volume based Sensor 3D Image combined 
with an image of two   modalities with Intuitive probe position tool should be shown. 
i.      Fusion Adopter should be Given for Convex and Linear Probes. 
  
j.      System should support Auto Track Device for CT and MR for Automatic Registration of 
Fusion Data set and quoted as option.  
  
  
The system should have advanced DICOM Modalities work list  
Sophisticated Ergonomics:  
A flexible multi joint arm supports the LCD monitor, allowing appropriate positioning for 
operations in the standing or sitting posture to be achieved easily.  
Monitor: 
Monitor should be high resolution, 21” (inch) or more Back Lit LED/ LCD Monitor with 
1080 x1080 matrix or more. Please specify resolution range with IPS technology. 
Console:  
The freely programmable, mode-sensitive 10” or more Color Touch Command Screen which 
enables direct access to all basic and advanced system controls.  
Convenient transducer trays on both sides should put. up to Six transducers within easy reach in 
any scanning position.  
Basic and advanced quantification functions should be activated directly on the programmable 
console.  
All Mode keys concisely arranged with multi-gain controller should enable direct access to all 
imaging modes.  
A retractable alphanumeric keyboard should be available to manually enter comments or patient 
data  
Control panel can be moved horizontally and vertically according to user comfort  
Integrated gel warmer.  
Data management:  


--- Page 13 ---
Tender for High End Ultrasound Machine 
Admn/Tender/29/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
A large-capacity minimum 1TB HDD should be provided in the standard configuration, facilitating 
efficient management of acquired images. Images can be viewed in Image Review Mode. Also cine 
memory of more than 2000 frames should be available.  
Filed images can have output via the USB port (USB Memory or USB HDD) or stored on 
CD/DVD by Image Management.  
Should be able to integrate with the then existing PACS in the institute with no extra cost.  
Measurements and Calculations:  
Auto measurement should be possible on frozen images and Images Recalled from the Image 
archive.  
The System should have Comprehensive set of Measurements in OB/ Gyn/ Carotid/ Lower Limb/ 
Upper Limb / Thyroid / Testis / Abdominal Applications  
Template customization should be possible.  
On Board Report for all Packages – Report transfer to Print Page along with Selected Images will 
be Printed using normal PC Printer.  
Following Probes should be supplied along with system:  
1.Convex Probe with Band width of 1MHz to 5MHz OR MORE with Biopsy Guide for Abdominal 
applications and Support for Strain and Shear wave Elastography 
2.Linear matrix probe of 5 to 9 MHz with Biopsy guide and should support Strain, Shear wave 
Elastography and contrast imaging applications 
3.Dedicated Trans-Rectal/Trans vaginal Probe with Band width of 4MHz to 9MHz OR MORE 
with Biopsy Guide and should Support for Strain Elastography  
4.Linear hockey stick probe of 5-14 MHz frequency for musculoskeletal applications. 
  
5.Linear probe of 7-17 MHz with strain elastography for musculoskeletal and small part 
applications 
ACCESSORIES  
1.     Online UPS OF 2KVa for at least 30mins backup 
  
2.     Patient Couch (fully motorized high end with adjustable height to enable easy transfer of 
patients) & two ergonomic high back operator Chairs. 
  
3.     Patient stool and stepper (one each). 
  
4.     One Computer desktop with core i7 CPU -Minimum 4 GB RAM ,1 TB storage with 32 inch 
display. It should have the software required for real time transfer of ultrasound images in DICOM 
format from the scanner to the computer. 
  
5.     One good quality colour paper printer with scanner. 
  
6.     Any other hardware required for optimum utilization of advanced applications on the scanner. 
  
7.     Stand alone gel warmer capable of holding three ultrasound bottles of standard size at a 
time(Thermasonic or equivalent brand). 
  
8.     Wall mounted cabinets to be installed in the ultrasound room. 
  
9.     Patient privacy curtain and appropriate partition to optimize space utilization. 
  
10.  Ambient lighting in the room as per the ACR norms. 
  
11.  Signages as per the PC-PNDT guidelines. 


--- Page 14 ---
Tender for High End Ultrasound Machine 
Admn/Tender/29/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 14 
 
  
12.  Appropriate probe cleansing solution adequate for one year. 
  
13.  Customised suitcases for keeping probes for storage. 
  
14.  Heavy duty cover for cables of probes to safeguard against rodent damage. 
  
15.  Biopsy guide attachments: 
a.     Convex Curved array 1 - 5 MHz:One in number(non disposable). 
b.    Linear array 5 - 9 MHz: One in number (non disposable). 
c.     Endocavitary probe 4 – 9 MHz: Two in number (non disposable). 
Onsite demonstration of the quoted unit may be asked for 
Warranty Five years complete warranty for the entire equipment, probes and accessories which 
should include service as well as parts . 
Kindly note: The vendor will have to ensure that the ultrasound scanner has GPS and 
tracker enabled as per PC-PNDT requirements. The same should also be maintained for five 
years from date of installation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


