--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Horizontal Autoclave  
 
                                                           Admn/Tender/96/2018-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Horizontal 
Autoclave  
General: 
 
Tender is invited from reputed original manufacture or their authorized 
agents/dealers only. Information regarding installation in India and 
satisfactory service and maintenance may be forwarded with all the 
details for verification. 
 
Technical: 
1. Stainless Steel of SS-304 grade. 
2. Triple walled with a steel jacket. 
3. Jacket and boiler made of stainless steel. 
4. Low Water cut off. 
5. Auto safety door lock. 
6. Mounted on rigid tabular stand. 
7. Spring loaded safety valve of stainless steel. 
8. Inner dimensions of chamber: (approx.) cylindrical 600mm 
diameter x 1100mm deep, 9KW (approx.). 
9. Electrically heated. 
10. Working pressure: 1.2 -1.5kg/sq. cm. 
11. The pressure is adjustable from 5 psi to 20 psi with automatic 
pressure control switch, which controls the pressure with an 
accuracy of +/- 1 psi. 
12. There should be provision for vaccum for drying of racks and 
porous loads. 
13. Automatic Pressure Control Switch- To cut-off the current 
from the heating elements, when the desired/ set pressure value 
level is attained inside the chamber and restarts the mechanism 
once the pressure inside the chamber falls from the desired level. 
14. Automatic Water Cut-off Device – To protect the heaters from 
running dry and to ensure that the machine is automatically 
switched off in case the desired water level falls below the 
prescribed level. 
15. Temperature Indicator to indicate the temperature inside the 
chamber. 
16. Timer with Alarm System - To regulate the sterilization time 
of the media to be sterilized and when the desired time is passed, 
with a buzzer, to that the completion of sterilization cycle. 
17. Should be CE (European) certified or US FDA approved  
18. Product should confirming to EN -285, EN-554, CE 
93/42/EEC,CE97/23 
PID, 
TUV, 
Class-IIA, 
MDD 
ISO 
13485:2003, ISO 9001:2000 Certifications. 
19. Should be a fully automatic Dual PLC microprocessor based 
High pressure, high vacuum autoclave for sterilizing hospital 
materials including agars, sterilization of solution in open & 
closed 
bottles, 
disinfection 
of 
materials 
and 
waste 
decontamination.  
20. Should be front loading, have Rectangular, horizontal chamber 
with well-insulated jacket, chamber volume 450 litter or more. 
Approx. internal chamber dimension: 700 x 650 x 990 mm approx. 
(W x H x D)/External dimension: 1900 x1300 X 1300 m approx.). 
(W x H x D).  
21. Should have single vertical sliding door to have a pass through 
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Horizontal Autoclave  
 
                                                           Admn/Tender/96/2018-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
system. Door should be electrically controlled having fully 
automatic function with multiple safety arrangements. Sealing 
system should be based on silicon seal. 6. Should have at least 50 
mm thick insulation material on jacket and doors to ensure low 
thermal losses. Working temperature of the door should be less 
than 45 deg C.  
22. Should be high-grade stainless steel construction inside and 
outside including all internal piping and external panels. Chamber 
& Doors Material: Stainless steel 316 L. Jacket Material 1: 
Stainless steel 316 Titanium. All Steam piping component and 
connection Stainless steel AISI 316L grade, External Panel & 
Frames S.S 304 grade 
23. Should have a built in colour touch screen of size minimum 
8.2” user’s interface cum Display for control & display 
sterilization cycle, parameter values, clear text message and alarm 
history preview etc.  
24. Should have audio-visual alarms in case of undesirable 
situation. All alarm should be with full explanatory Text messages 
on the display.  
25. Should have programmable Operators access level.  
26. Should have at least 8 pre-programmed standard cycles plus 5 
or more user programmable cycles and provision of chip card port 
for loading of new programs through chip card.  
27. Should have temperature adjustable from 121 0C to 135 0C.  
28. Safe working pressure range should be 15 to 32 PSI (1.1 bar – 
2.2 bar)  
29. Should have complete monitoring of cycle operation and 
provided with at least two pressure sensors and two Temp. Sensors 
(PT- 100 type) in addition to analog for chamber pressure, jacket 
pressure and steam generator pressure indication.  
30. The unit should be equipped with multiple safety mechanisms 
for Emergency Stop over. Pressure safety valves for chamber and 
jacket, over temp safety, steam traps and electrical safety.  
31. Should have maintenance menu for quick trouble shooting by 
touch screen display interface. All service access should be 
preferably from the front for space saving.  
32. Should have provision of getting Printout with positions of 
component in case of failure and should have integrated schematic 
diagrams with indications of positions components and with 
possibility to change positions of components by touch.  
33. Should have possibility to view the schematic diagrams in 
service mode during running process with observation of functions 
of components and progress of values.  
34. Should have possibility of forced digital increase of pressure 
for testing of safety components (function of control system, 
pressure switch, safety valve), Minimum 5 access levels: 
unauthorized user, authorized user, administrator, service 
engineer, designer and possibility to print the calibrations and 
other software settings in service mode  
35 The unit should include Non fade Built in thermo-recorder for 
step by step progress values during the cycle with time and date 
and alarm condition if any. 
36. Should have High efficiency Double water ring type Vacuum 
Pump.  
37. All Valve operation on warm pipes is Pneumatic type. 
38. Should have 0.02µm Hepa Filter for atmosphere air entry in 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Horizontal Autoclave  
 
                                                           Admn/Tender/96/2018-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
the chamber.  
39. Should be offered with inbuilt electric steam generator made of 
Stainless Steel AISI 3161 grade or better. It should have automatic 
water level control function.  
40. Should have built in feature of Water saving system for water 
conservation.  
41. Should be supplied complete with high quality stainless steel 
trolleys and sterilization baskets: External trolley =01 nos. Internal 
trolley with steel roller and shelves =01 no. and 2 sets of 
sterilization baskets.  
42. Should be offered complete with digital interface facility and 
software for remote supervision & data storage with provision to 
enable 
user 
make 
modification 
of 
already 
programmed 
sterilization programs. Installation should be on turnkey basis 
following will be the terms and conditions:  
a) Only water, electricity and drain outlet will be provided 
available by the department within the room of installation. The 
supplier shall be responsible for arranging rest of the things for 
installation and smooth functioning of the equipment on a turnkey 
basis.  
b) Following shall be provided by the supplier along with 
machine:  
I. Two sets of operating manual.  
II. Two sets of circuit diagram. III. Service manual. On-site 
training in operation and day-to-day maintenance to AIIMS 
Jodhpur CSSD staff. 


