--- Page 16 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Micro/1/2017 
 
 
Page 16 of 20 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical Specification 
 
Technical Specification for "Automated Anaerobic Jar System" for  
Department of Microbiology  
 
 
1) It should be an automated Anaerobic Jar system which can generate and maintain anaerobic 
conditions within the jar. 
 
2) It should be a tabletop model with small footprint.  
 
3) The equipment should be efficient enough to produce any non-hazardous gas atmosphere 
within the transparent jars, by programming. 
 
4) It should be able to mix gases from different gas cylinders/anaerobic mix gas, including O2, CO2 
or CO. 
 
5) User should be able to set percentage of gases through touch screen and the system should 
have enough memory to store multiple programs for future use. 
 
6) All controlled conditions like Hypoxic, Capnophiic, Anaerobic and microaerophilic should be 
reproducible and stay within 0.5% of the desired value. 
 
7) It should be fully automatic so that the user can attend other work while the equipment 
processes the jar/jars. It should be able to eliminate human error. 
 
8) It should have a touch screen display for easy/simple operation. 
 
9) It should have quality assurance features to identify leakages in low pressure, high pressure & 
Atmospheric pressure in its jars. It should be able to identify non-regenerated catalysts (Active 
– Non active catalysts) and non-availability of gases from cylinders, before starting the gas 
filling of jars or prior to detaching jars for incubation. 
 
10) The equipment should stop and give details of reasons for failures mentioned in specification 
number 9 on the screen with proper color codes, so that user can rectify the defect & restart 
the anaerobic process.  
 
11) It should have provision to fix filter to prevent microbial contamination of the laboratory & 
hospital environment in the interest of safety & health benefit of hospital employees & 
patients. 
 
12) It should keep the jar atmosphere with appropriate humidity to prevent drying and cross 
contamination. 
13) It should be flexible enough so that a programmable model should be able to produce optimal 
conditions for each strain or cells in separate jars. 
 
14) It should be a cost efficient system in terms of minimum consumption of gases & low 
maintenance. It should work without any disposables and chemicals. 


--- Page 17 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Micro/1/2017 
 
 
Page 17 of 20 
 
 
15) It can work with transparent anaerobic jars of its own or with modified ordinary metallic 
anaerobic jars which don’t leak.  
 
16) The vacuum pump should be incorporated to the body of the equipment. 
 
17) It should be upgradable so that if basic instrument is purchased, it can be upgraded to full-
fledged equipment to handle 3 gases or jars, with all high end programming facilities in it. 
 
18) It should have options for its own printer connection, LAN Connection & barcode scanning to 
identify specimens.  
 
19) The equipment should come with arrangements for supply of Indian items like gas cylinders, 
pressure regulators etc.  
 
20) It should preferably have at least 10 years of working installations in government medical 
institutions and colleges. 
 
21) It should be supplied with arrangements for two years free refilling of Anaerobic Mix gas with 
arrangement for transport of gas cylinders to & fro. 
 
22) Electrical Power: 220-240 V; 50-60 Hz, 1.5 KW 
 
23) It should have a warranty of one year. 
 
24) AMC will be for four years. 
 
 
Store Officer 
AIIMS, Raipur 
 
 
 
 
 
 


