--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Real Time Quantitative PCR system                                                                 Admn/Tender/211/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Real Time 
Quantitative 
PCR system 
1. Capable of performing both real time PCR and end point analysis  
2. Peltier-based system.  
3. 96-well block (both for Fast and standard Emulation Mode)  
4. Supported volume range: 10μl to 30 μL  
5. Filters(wide band) - Five-excitation filters, five-emission filters.  
6. Detection : CCD camera.  
7. Block ramp rate (at peak): ≥50 C  
8. Temperature Range: 4°C-99°C  
9. Factory calibrated for handling dyes such as SYBR Green, FAM, 
VIC, JOE, NED, TAMRA, ROX, Texas Red, Cy3, Cy5.  
10. Additional Dyes Available: Calibration for new dyes within the 
wavelength range should be possible by following the custom dye 
calibration procedure in the User’s Manual without purchase of 
additional filter sets.  
11. Capable of performing relative and absolute quantitation, Melting 
curve analysis (at high resolution), multiplex-PCR, SNP analysis, 
dissociation curve analysis, pathogen detection and plus/minus assays 
etc.  
12. Data collection:  
Standard- Collect data for all 5 filters for all wells regardless of plate 
setup. Plate setup may be altered after run completes.  
13. Expert: Collect data for selected individual filter or group of filters 
for all wells regardless of plate. Plate setup may be altered after run 
completes.  
14. Details of data acquisition during run for all dyes should be 
provided and ensured Temperature accuracy: Maximum (+/-0.5°C of 
set point/display temperature, measured at 3 minutes after clock start).  
15. Run time: ~30 min (fast mode-expert), <2 hrs (standard & 
emulation mode) for 40 cycles).  
16. The software should be inclusive of Multi-componenting 
Algorithm designed to provide precise deconvolution of multiple dye 
signals in each well to ensure minimal crosstalk when using multiple 
fluorophores for multiplex assays.  
17. Dedicated licensed full version software for primer and probe 
design with comprehensive assay design and development guidelines 
for quantitative and qualitative real-time assays should be provided to 
enable designing of custom oligo assays.  
18. The IQ, OQ and PQ of the instrument should be performed at the 
time of installation.  
20. Electrical specification: 220 volts, 50Hz. single phase A.C.  
21. After Sale, Service should be available promptly.  
22. Should be CE or FDA or BIS approved product 
03 


