--- Page 6 ---
Tender No.: AIIMS-NAG/HOS-store/NM/23-24/18F-PSMA/05 
 
 
6 | P a g e  
 
Annexure-1 
 
Specification and annual Requirement 
 
Sl. 
No 
Description of item  
Approximate 
annual requirement 
(In Packs) 
1. 
18F- PSMA (18F- Prostate Specific Membrane Antigen) Pack of 30 mCi each 
 
Transportation should be doorstep. 
 
Total Cost should include cost of returning empty boxes 
and shield container. 
 
Bidder should follow standard radio pharmacopoeia 
guidelines. 
 
Supplier have follow all the radiation safety to guidelines 
as per AERB, India 
           
70 Packs 
1. Additional conditions 
a)        Door step delivery at AIIMS, Nagpur. 
b) 
The vendor has to supply the items as per the requirement of user department. The written 
communication will be done in this regard. 
Note: The Quantity mentioned here is tentative it may increase or decrease based requirement of 
AIIMS, Nagpur.  
 
Other Terms &Conditions: 
 
1. Pre–Qualification Criteria: 
i. Bidder should be the manufacturer/authorized dealer/Distributor/Trader/ Supplier. Letter of 
Authorization from Manufacturer for the same and specific to the tender should be uploaded in the 
prescribed place. 
ii. An undertaking from the original Manufacturer is required stating that they would facilitate the 
bidder on regular basis with technology/product updates and extend support for the warranty as well. 
The scanned copy of same to be uploaded. 
2. Performance Guarantee Bond: 
i. The successful bidder shall have to submit a performance security deposit (SD) within 30 days from 
the date of Rate Contract. Extension of time for submission of PG beyond 30 days and up to 60 days 
from the date of Rate Contract may be given by the competent authority to sign the contract agreement 
however a panel interest of 15% per annum shall be charged for the delay beyond 30 days. i.e. 31st day 
after the date of issue of Rate Contract. In case of the contractor fails to submit the requisite PG even 
after 60 days from the date of issue of Rate Contract the contract shall be terminated. The failed 
contractor shall be debarred from participating in re-tender (if any) for that item. Performance 
Guarantee Bond is mandatory. 
ii. Successful supplier/firm should submit performance security deposit (SD) as prescribed in favour 
of “The Director, AIIMS Nagpur” through any Schedule Bank with a clause to enforce the same on 
their local branch at Nagpur and to be received in the Store Office, 1st Floor, IPD Building , AIIMS 
Nagpur, Pin- 441108 within 30 days from the date of Rate Contract. The performance guarantee bond 
to be furnished in the form of Bank Guarantee as per given Proforma of the tender documents, for an 
amount of Rs. 2 Lakh  
iii. Validity of the performance security deposit (SD) shall be for a period of 60 days beyond of entire 
contract period. 
3. Delivery/Supply: The supply should be completed within stipulated time period mentioned by the user 
department and this clause should be strictly adhering to failing which administrative action as deemed 
fit under rules will be taken against the defaulter. Otherwise Liquidation Damages will be imposed as 
per clause. Unloading of material will be arranged by supplier. 


