--- Page 44 ---
 
 
SECTION –XIII 
 
ALL INDIA INSTITUTE OF MEDICAL SCIENCES 
ANSARI NAGAR: NEW DELHI: 110 029 
F. No. 21-05/LM/AKM/2015-16 
 
Name of the Item: SPECIFICATIONS FOR PLATELET AGGREGOMETER 
1. Platelet Aggregometer working on the principle of Platelet Rich plasma (Optical 
turbidimetric)/ Whole blood (Impedance)  
2. Should have minimum two channels with optical aggregation – Aggregation in PRP, with 
sample volume: 250l or less. Impedance aggregation – Aggregation in whole blood 
preferably with a sample volume of 500l. 
3. Should gave adjustable stirrer speed between 400 to 1000 RPM in 100-RPM steps with 
“stirrer stopped” position, and error detection to prevent operation, if not within  10 
RPM 
4. Should have LCD display, one per channel, for display of : (a) Heater block – 
temperature in °C  (b) Stirring speed in RPM (c) Operating mode ( Optical or Impedance)  
(d) Warning message  
5. Computerized data analysis with appropriate system software with CD-Writer for 
convenient storage and retrieval of data, colour monitor and colour inkjet printer should 
be included. Software package (Windows XP, or the applicable one) should be included. 
6. System should include an internal computer interface and comprehensive software for 
measuring upto two samples for simultaneous aggregation 
7. Software on-board should provide for real time display of two channels of aggregation, 
Computation of amplitude, slope, log time and area under the curve, Storage of reagent 
data for tracking test value, demography details, for later recall 
8. Should be FDA and CE approved 


--- Page 45 ---
9. System should be quoted complete with appropriate stabiliser or UPS with one hour 
battery backup. 
10. The recommended maintenance kit, for trouble free operation and maintenance of the 
system for a minimum period of five years should be quoted. 
11. The consumables including reagents should be available for supply in local currency and 
preferably within 48 hours after ordering. 
12. The after sales service should be available preferably within 24 hours and with trained 
service personnel based in Delhi only. The bidder has to produce a certificate assuring 
that they have an application specialist based in Delhi & who will be attending any test 
related problem within reasonable time to ensure zero down time. 
13. Warranty for 5 years & CMC price for next 5 years, which should include cost of labour 
spares, entire equipment.  
14. The Firm should provide price for all the reagents and consumables required for next 5 
years. 
 
15. Evaluation of Tender: The tender will be evaluated on the basis of cost of the equipment 
along with the price of the reagents panel (for ADP, arachidonic acid, epinephrine, 
collagen and ristocetin) and other consumables, if necessary for 100 tests. 
 
Specifications are broad based and generalised and does not suit any particular firm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


