--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Portable X-ray with CR facility 
Admn/Tender/25/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Portable X-
ray with CR 
facility 
State of Art High frequency microprocessor controlled Portable X Ray 
system with integrated Computed Radiography system having following 
features: 
 Compact, lightweight, easily transportable mobile High 
Frequency X-Ray unit with integrated CR system suitable for 
bedside x-rays, trauma, Intensive care units, Operations theatres 
and Radiology department. 
 The unit should be fully counterbalanced and can be positioned 
to suit different bed heights. The unit should have facility of 
vertical swing and horizontal rotation of the tube head to ensure 
X - Ray of any anatomy even within limited space. 
 The unit must have an effective braking system for parking and 
transport. 
 The unit must have intelligent graphical Touch screen display 
with atleast 60 user-configurable anatomy presets for ease of 
operation to the operator. 
 The exposure release switch should be detachable with a cord of 
sufficient length (atleast 3 m) 
 
 
The Generator: 
a. Microprocessor controlled high frequency / inverter type 
of high frequency (40 KHz or more) for constant output. 
b. It should have power rating of atleast 4 kW or more 
c. It should have a digital display of mAs and kV. 
d. KV range : 40 KV to 100 KV or more 
e. mA range: 10 mA to 100 mA or more 
f. KV selection: 40 kV to 100 kv, selectable in 1 kV steps 
g. mAS selection: 0.1 to 250 mAS 
h. It should have over loading protection. 
i. It should have APR feature 
j. It should have inbuilt Processor and large touch screen 
display for ease in operation of X-Ray system and the 
CR system 
 
 
X-Ray Tube and Collimator: 
a. Stationary / Rotating anode having focal spot size less 
than 2mm  
b. Output of tube should match with that of generator. 
c. Light Beam diaphragm / Double layer Collimator with 
auto cut off switch. The light intensity shall be at least 
160 lux at 1 mtr distance from focal spot. 
 The unit should operate on single phase power supply and 
should have plug in facility to any standard wall outlet with 
automatic adaptation to line voltage 200 to 240 volts, 15 Amp 
plug. 
 The Leakage radiation level at 1 meter from the focus should be 
less than 70 mR. Products having minimal leakage radiation 
level will be preferred. (Please attached relevant test report) 
 
The Systems should be fully safe with respect to 
a. Over current 
02 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Portable X-ray with CR facility 
Admn/Tender/25/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b. Over Voltage 
c. Maximum loading of tube 
 
 The System should be supplied with Computed Radiography 
system having following features: 
a. High resolution CR system should be completely integrated 
with the main mobile X Ray unit. 
b. CR should be mounted on the main Mobile X-Ray unit & the 
total combined weight of unit should be less than 170 kgs 
c. Should have imaging plates fixed to rigid back panel and 
nothing touching the active area of phosphor plate to ensure 
superior image quality and durability of the system. 
d. The inbuilt processor should have comprehensive software 
with facility of smart search, sort, filter options, full set of 
annotations, measurement tools and user preferred settings, 
selectable from the touch screen display. 
e. CR system should be fast enough to scan 40 plates per hour 
or more 
f. Grayscale resolution: 16 bits/Pixel source file or more, 
65536 shades of Grey  
g. Data acquisition process should be True Flat Scan Path or 
better 
h. Image access time: 60 seconds or less  
i. The system should be DICOM & PACS compatible 
 
 Power input to be 220-240VAC, 50Hz fitted with Indian plug. 
 The product should be CE or USFDA approved. 
 Should be an AERB approved product  
 
 Essential Accessories: The following essential accessories to be 
provided with the unit. 
a. Online UPS of required capacity, compatible with the 
unit, to take care of the power failure, for at least 30 
Minutes back up for the whole system, the capacity of 
the UPS should be specified. 
b. CR compatible Cassettes - Two each of size  10” X 12” 
(25X30cm) and 14” X 17” (35X43cm) 
c. Inkjet / Laser printer for printing patient reports & X – 
Ray films on coated transparency sheets / on normal 
paper 
d. AERB certification to be done by the vendor. 
 


