--- Page 65 ---
 
 
SECTION – VII  
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
1. Platform Pedography system- capable of measuring static and dynamic pressure distribution under the foot 
while standing and walking. 
2. The system should have stand- alone platform for Stance and Roll-Off analysis.  
3. The system should work on capacitive based sensors technology. 
4. It should have more than 2500 capacitive sensors. 
5. It should have minimum sensing area: 50 x 30 cm 
6. It should have minimum sampling rate: 100 Hz 
7. Measuring Range: 1-120 Newton per centimeter square or wider 
8. Accuracy: ±5% 
9. Hysteresis : Less than 3% 
10. It should have Sync. - in/Sync. -out interface. 
11. It should have software for data collection, analysis, and report generation. 
12. The report generated should include static load distribution analysis, basic function equilibrium analysis, 
roll-off analysis.  
13. The gait parameters should be displayed in the evaluation report. These should include, amongst others, 
the step length and step width, the stance, swing and double stance phase as well as the cadence. 
14. The evaluation reports should be freely configurable. The measurement procedure may be observed in a 
viewer, and if necessary be played back in slow motion. Individual time segments can be selected from the 
report for further analysis. 
15. Each sensor should produce its own calibration curve. Should display calibrated pressure values for each 
sensor. 
16. Should show 2D and 3D pictures of pressure point, the maximum pressure images, pressure and force 
curves and the individual phases of the roll off process. 
17. Should have algorithms for integration of multiple passes across the measurement surface 
18. Comparative analyses of two measurements should be possible.  
19. The system can be connected directly to a commercially available PC / laptop via USB interface and require 
no additional electronics.  
20. All raw values and the values of the evaluation report can be exported as data files. 
21. Pedography data should be compatible with CAD/CAM systems for the manufacturing of custom-made 
inserts. 
22. The Bidder should quote optional video camera - 2 Nos. - for video synchronization, and Bluetooth 
telemetry EMG for muscle function to analyze forces parallel to the ground reaction forces.  
23. System should be supplied with Laptop of suitable configuration. 
24. Should come with a stand for the evaluation computer with facilities for mounting optional camera and 
lighting units. 
25. The system should be IEC/European CE/USFDA approved. 
26. The system should have minimum 5 years warranty. 
 
 
 


--- Page 66 ---
 
 
 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document for 
complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever 
applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning and 
Site Modification Work from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & 
handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by double 
the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College on 24 
(hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. 
The service should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that 
the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 
10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents (if 
they 
have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of 
the consignee. The same will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical 
specification. 
4. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, wherever 
required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be installed, in 
consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. Site Modification Work 
details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end of Technical Specification. 
The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of the Machine and Site Modification Work 
of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian 
Rupee will be added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price 
will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderers attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). 
The tenderer 
is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. accordingly failing which 
it‟s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of equipment 
for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should 
make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment to periodically 
check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety Standards IS-13540 which is also 
equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 
60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the 
Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they should provide a commitment to get 
the equipment checked for electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs 
/ Electronics Test and Development Centres across the country on every preventive 
maintenance call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management information 
system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical 
training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at the 


--- Page 67 ---
 
 
institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be required to train the 
institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period .


