--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Digital X-ray (flat panel Radiography unit with two Flat panel detectors) 
Admn/Tender/31/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
Tender Specifications for digital flat panel Radiography unit with two Flat panel detectors 
Offered model should be state of the art with features equivalent to the latest model launched in latest 
release in RSNA. 
The Unit should be completely integrated system (integrated X-ray generator and image acquisition 
control console). Out of Generator/Tube/Detector, at least two (if not three) must be manufactured by the 
quoting vendor themselves. It should have following specifications: 
1. Generator 
1000 mA unit with microprocessor controlled high frequency X-ray generator with power output of 80 
KW or more 
·           The exposure range should be 40-150KV 
·           The minimum exposure time should be 2msec or less. 
n   Automatic exposure control function is an essential requirement. 
2. X-Ray Tube 
Should be ceiling suspended 
Tube should have at least 2 focal spot 
·           Small focal spot should be 0.6 or less and large focal spot should be 1.3 or less 
·           Tube loading should be at least 30 KW for small and at least 80 KW for large focus. 
·           Should have motorized movement of ceiling suspended tube. 
Should have electromagnetic locks with collision protection sensor. 
·           Field size programming should be possible. 
·           Anode heat storage capacity should be 300 KHU or more 
n   X ray tube and collimator section should have automated image shuttering and cropping facility in 
collimator. 
·           All the movements of the overhead tube suspension (3D column stand) and the chest stand 
(vertical detector) should be fully motorized. It should be possible to override it manually. 
n   There should be auto positioning of the overhead tube suspension against both the vertical detector 
and the table detector. This should be possible through selected protocol from both the console as well 
as from wall stand control. 
• Tube tracking should be there in all axes 
·      Overhead tube suspension (3D column stand) should also have a screen with display of important 
parameters and controls. 
n   Tube rotation: Vertical axis +/- 135 degrees, Horizontal  axis +125/-125 degrees or better. Pelase 
specify rotation of your offered model. 
·       Should have motorized copper filter to avoid unwanted radiation 
3. Horizontal Bucky Table 
    • Motor driven, adjustable height floating table top of carbon fibre or equivalent material. 
·           Compact bucky table with integrated built-in / wireless digital flat panel detector. 
·            Foot switches for adjusting height, longitudinal/side to side movements, locking. 
·          Detector movement should be synchronized with movement of the X-Ray tube. 
·           Tube movement should be synchronized with the table so that the SID is maintained automatically 
·             Removable grid for SID of 100cms for horizontal table applications 
·            Automatic exposure control should be available 
4. Vertical Bucky (Wall stand) 
Motorized, counter balanced adjustable height vertical Bucky with integrated built-in digital flat panel 
detector. 
Should be possible to tilt the Vertical detector system (-15° to + 90°) 
·                      Should be able to travel vertically from 15 inches to 60 inches above floor level 
·                      Detector movement should be synchronized with movement of the X-Ray tube in all 
planes.  
·                       Removable grid for SID of 180cms for vertical bucky applications 
Automatic exposure control should be available 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Digital X-ray (flat panel Radiography unit with two Flat panel detectors) 
Admn/Tender/31/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
5. Detector System 
Detector material should be made of amorphous silicon with CSi scintillator 
·        Two Digital flat panel detector systems with detector integrated into the wall stand and 
integrated/wireless for Bucky table. (total of 2 separate detectors) 
Detector specification 
Minimum size of detector should be 41cms X 41 cms or more for integrated detector. Please provide size 
of wireless detector for Buck table if offered. 
(Vendor should also offer any other smaller size detector for pediatric patients as an option. Please quote 
its price separately in the price bid.) 
·             Image matrix size 2k x 2k pixels or more. 
·             Pixels size should be 200p.m or less 
Image resolution should be 2.5 1ps/mm or more 
·             DOE of detector system should be 65% or more at 0.05 lps/mm or more 
·                      Tube assembly movement to be automatically synchronized with both the horizontal and 
vertical detectors movement 
6. Operating (acquisition) Station 
Should have high resolution TFT/LCD monitors of minimum 19" size or more (fully flat) with minimum 
1024x1024 or more display matrix and antireflective front screen. 
·       Image acquisition matrix should be minimum of 2k x 2K 
System should have auto protocol select 
Operating console should have facility for patient identity entry, viewing and processing images, 
documentation. 
Preview image should be ready in 5 sec or less 
·       Ortho Stitching should be available in vertical stand as well as on the table. The stitching should be 
automated. Stitching should be possible on main system.There should be in built measurement scale. 
7. Image Viewing, Post —Processing and reporting Station and Documentation 
An Independent Workstation with all post processing and printing facility should be quoted with storage 
capability of 10,000 or more images with ability to review and report X Rays independent of main 
console. 
 High speed intel Xeon processor based (Z400 workstation) CPU (3.0 GHz or higher processing 
speed) with post processing capability 
 16 GB RAM or more 
 Should have its independent memory and hard disk of atleast 1TB 
 Should have a high resolution medical grade LCD colour monitor of 19” or more. 
Should have independent monitor of high resolution TFT/LCD monitor of 19" or more. 
·       Image display matrix should be of high resolution, minimum of 1.5 K x 1.5 K 
·       Post acquisition image processing, viewing, reprocessing, hard copy documentation and onward 
transmission should be possible. 
·       Image processing functions like rotate, mirroring, zoom, move, and windowing filter should be 
possible. 
·      There should be facility for measurements. 
·       Should be connected to a Dry chemistry Camera of 500 DPI or more for documentation. The camera 
should accept all size films upto 14"x17" size (three film size trays should be active). 
·       Multiformat printing should be possible with user selectable options. 
·       It should be possible to create alphabetical, date wise and exam based, work list 
·  Work list should be auto refreshing 
8. Image Storage and Transmission 
·      Acquisition system should have hard disc storage capacity should be of 4000 or more images and 
Additional post processing Workstation should have storage capacity of 10,000 images or more 
·      The systems should support storage of images on compact discs and DVD 
The system should be DICOM 3.0 (or higher version) ready (like send, receive, print, record on 
CD/DVD, acknowledge etc.) for connectivity to any network, computer/PC etc. in DICOM format. 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Digital X-ray (flat panel Radiography unit with two Flat panel detectors) 
Admn/Tender/31/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
Integration and networking should be possible with any other existing/future networking including other 
modalities, HIS and RIS and PACS. Vendor will connect it to existing RIS PACS network without extra 
cost for existing and future networking. 
9. Accessories 
Dry chemistry Camera of 500 DPI or more 
UPS (of 3 KVA) for the computer with 30 minutes backup 
·    Lead glass of size 100x 150 cm or more for console room. 
Vendor to install wireless mike system for calling patients who are waiting outside 
·      Ten light weight 'zero lead' aprons of 0.5mm lead equivalence with thyroid shield collar. 
·     A 120 KV or better stabilizer for the DR system 
10.    Upgrading requirement: 
A free comprehensive software update/ upgrade (compatible with the offered platform) guarantee for 10 
years after installation. 
11.    Furniture : 
·    Cupboard for storage-  Three 
· Godrej swivel chairs with arm rest —Ten  
·  Film viewing panel for X ray films 3 in 1 of 14"X17" size — Four (LED type Maxx or equivalent) 
·  Table with storage space— Three 
· Examination stool - two 
·  Footstep for patient: two 
· Gonadal shields for boys and girls of all age groups — Two set each 
·  Stand for lead aprons and Gonadal shields 
·   Emergency light - one 
·Wall fans— two 
11. Warranty/After Sale Service 
Five-year comprehensive on-site warranty of entire system (Spares and labor) including X-ray tube and 
all accessories and civil, electrical and air conditioning works. This will be followed by 5 years 
comprehensive CMC. Vendor will maintain the room during entire duration of Warranty and CMC and 
will paint it on alternate years. 
 95% uptime guarantee should be given. In case down time exceeds 5%, penalty in the form of extended 
warranty, double the number of days for which the equipment goes out of service, will be applied. 
13. Installation and Turnkey 
·           All site approval, layout approval and registration of equipment from AERB shall be done by 
Radiology Department AIIMS Jodhpur under assistance of supplier. 
·           All turnkey work proposed by the selected firm will require approval of HOD of department of 
Radiology, AIIMS Jodhpur and competent authorities including engineering section, of the institute 
before implementation. 
 A complete site preparation plan will be required to be submitted as a turnkey project. The vendor will 
be eligible to inspect the proposed site. 
 The cost of alteration and preparation in a specified built in area on turnkey basis which will include 
civil, electrical and air conditioning and maintenance of air conditioning is to be borne by the firm. 
Requirement of power and air conditioning must be clearly specified. The room should be adequately 
air-conditioned and that should be discussed with engineering department of the AIIMS. 
Turnkey work: 
Ceiling work – Metal powder coated false ceiling to be considered.  
Doors – the doors associated with the examination room to be lead lined laminated wooden doors with 
hard wood frames, rest all other door would be laminated wooden damage to the wall due to stretchers. 
Brick wall partition between radiography room and console with lead glass. 
 
Electrical: All general lighting in the area will be carried out by LED light by using copper wring 
and PVC conduits. The lights will be of Philips, Syska or equivalent. The switches will be of Crabtree, 
Havells or equivalent. Earthling for DR system UPS etc to be provided by vendor.  
·           A state of the art fire fighting system with alarm and smoke detectors to be installed and connected 
to nearest fire panel of hospital. Fire extinguishers 3 nos 2kg ABC type to be provided. 


--- Page 13 ---
Tender for Digital X-ray (flat panel Radiography unit with two Flat panel detectors) 
Admn/Tender/31/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
Lead lining of the walls and doors, as required. 
·           Changing area with lead lined walls / partition. This needs to be clarified and approved by HOD. 
·           Vendor will maintain the room and paint it on alternate years till the end of CMC period. 
14. Essential Certification 
·           Radiation safety certificate — offered model must have a valid AERB NOC / Type approved 
certificate at the time of submission of tender. 
·           Quality certificate: Entire unit must be USA FDA/ European CE approved. 
15. Important instructions to supplier 
All tenders should be in two bids. The technical and price bid should be provided in two separate 
envelopes. 
·     Please submit copy of supply order of offered model, if sold anywhere else in India or abroad.  
·                       In the price bid, please give breakdown of cost of each third party / local items separately 
for easy comparison 
 All the information in the tender document must be supported by product data sheets (original copy). 
All information asked must be provided under heading given above. Incomplete and haphazard 
information will not be accepted. 
Please provide names and addresses of other installations in India & abroad, if any. 
The supplier must ensure the availability of expert service and maintenance. Uninterrupted availability 
of spare parts and repair of next ten years must be assured. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 7 


