--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Electrophiesis Appartus 
Admn/Tender/94-2/2018-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Electrophiesi
s Appartus  
(Agarose Gel Electrophoresis with Gel imaging system) 
 
General: Tender is invited from reputed original manufacture or their 
authorized agents/ dealers only. Information regarding installation in 
India and satisfactory service and maintenance may be forwarded with 
all the details for verification. 
 
Technical: 
A. Gel electrophoresis system (02 Horizontal/ 02 Vertical ) with 
power pack  
1. Horizontal agarose gel electrophoresis apparatus  
2. Single molded buffer tank with replaceable platinum electrodes   
3. Capacity to run gel with at least 10 samples  
4. Gel trays should have UV transparent two tray approximately 15×7 cm 
and 15×10 cm or better with at least two slots for combs and printed 
fluorescent marker visible over UV light   
5. Power pack – max, voltage (300 V), max current (500 mA), 
Constant current (available) and constant voltage (available) and 
at least four outputs  
6.   Accessories should include taping free gel caster and casting 
gates leak free casting, Gel trays, Combs etc. of deferent volume 
and sizes . 
7. Should be EN61010 and FDA or CE or BIS approved product 
B. Gel imaging system to visualize 
i) Stained and stain free protein gels (coomassie, sliver, UV light-
excited fluorescent stains)  
ii)  Stained nucleic acid gels (ethidium bromide and other UV light 
excited 
       Fluorescent stains). 
1. Compact benchtop instrument 
2. With UV and visible light Transillumination and visible light 
conversion screen/transilluminator, motorized zoom lens; 
Transillumination and epi illumination . 
3. Camera- high speed USB technology for faster image capture and 
download 
Auto focus configuration. 
4. Auto exposure setting for optimum image exposure time. 
5. CCD resolution- 5 megapixel or more 
6. Excitation source- Trans-UV, 254/302/365 nm; Wide 
transillumination area/Sample size approx. 25×30 cm or better;  
Provided with PC, Software compatibility: Windows 
04 


