--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Polygraph (sixteen channel research)                                                           Admn/Tender/26/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Polygraph 
(sixteen 
channel 
research)  
1 Technical Specification  
1.1 No of Channels : 16  
1.2 Ethernet/High Speed USB Data Acquisition and analysis Software.  
1.3 Apparatus for recording and calculating HRV and blood pressure 
Variability, temperature  
1.4 Transducers and softwares for recording and analyzing 
plethysmography, GSR, Skin temperature,Continuous real-time beat-
to-beat blood pressure, Non Invasive Cardiac Out Put, respiration, 
phonocardiogram and pulse tonometer for carotid pulse, baroreflex 
sensitivity and total peripheral resistance recording.  
1.5 21 inch TFT monitor  
1.6 160 GB storage facility and 1GB RAM for the computer  
1.7 Colour laser printer  
1.8 Wireless (transmitter / recorder) device with transmit range up to 
100m, memory capacity 480 hours, 250 Hz sampling rate, radio band 
frequency  
2 Accessories, Spares and Consumables  
2.1 Necessary cables and batteries  
2.2 Computer (latest configurations) with laser printer to be attached 
to the equipment  
3 Standards, Safety and Training  
3.1 Should be CE / BIS approved product  
3.2 Calibration/Acceptance test certificate from the factory required.  
3.3 Manufacturer/Supplier should have ISO certification for quality 
standards.  
3.4 Should have local service facility .The service provider should 
have the necessary equipments recommended by the manufacturer to 
carry out preventive maintenance test as per guidelines provided in the 
service/maintenance manual.  
4 Documentation  
4.1 User/Service Manual in English  
4.2 Compliance Report to be submitted in a tabulated and point wise 
manner clearly mentioning the page/ para number of original 
catalogue/data sheet. Any point, if not substantiated with authenticated 
catalogue/manual, will not be considered.  
5 Multi-channel universal bio-amplifier for ECG, EMG, EEG, EOG 
(at least 8 channels) along with cardio axis analysis.  
6 Bidders are encouraged to arrange for demonstration of their 
equipment if not able to comply with all specification requirement.  
01 


