--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Automated DNA Sequencer (8 channel) with capacity of up gradation to 24 capillary 
Admn/Tender/34/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Automated 
DNA 
Sequencer (8 
channel) 
with 
capacity of 
up gradation 
to 24 
capillary  
1. Fully automated capillary, fluorescence-based DNA Sequencer  
2. Certification: CE/BIS/FDA and IVD certified  
3. Number of capillaries: 8 Capillaries operating in parallel and must 
be upgradable to 24 capillaries to meet future throughput. Employ 
capillary arrays with a useful life that exceeds 160 runs.  
4. Applications: Should be able to perform de novo sequencing, EST 
analysis, SAGE analysis, gene regulation studies, microbial 
diversity analysis, epigenetic change analysis, Re-sequencing, Long 
Read Sequencing, comparative sequencing, Fragment analysis 
applications like SSR, ISSR, AFLP Plant & Microbial Finger 
printing, Microsatellite, Long Sizing, SNP Validation and screening, 
Linkage analysis, Allele calling.  
5. Must be able to detect and analyze at least 6 fluorescent dyes 
simultaneously for DNA fragment analysis.  
6. Heating/cooling: Active temperature cooling/heating that can 
maintain capillary temperatures from 18°C to 70°C.  
7. System should be capable of both 96 and 384 well sample plate 
option.  
8. Sequencing throughput: ≥180 samples/day having ≥500bp read 
length with quality ≥ QV20.  
9. System should support read length more than 850 bases per reaction.  
10. Sequencing software: The vendor must supply licensed software that 
are optimized for the instrument in the area of de novo, Re-
sequencing, Long Read Sequencing, and comparative sequencing, 
Fragment analysis applications like SSR, ISSR, AFLP Plant & 
Microbial Finger printing, Microsatellite, Long Sizing, SSCP, SNP 
Validation and screening, Linkage analysis.  
11. Real time analysis: System software should allow real-time date 
quality evaluation providing immediate access to base-called or size 
called date to make decision about the quality of data as it is 
generated.  
12. Desktop computer for data analysis: Computer system should have 
at least Intel Core 16GB DDR4 RAM, 2 TB GB HD, DVD-RW, 
Gigabit Ethernet, USB Keyboard, USB Optical Scroll Mouse, Intel 
HD Graphics 2500, 23" Wide TFT monitor, latest Licensed 
Windows, Latest licensed Microsoft Office, and antivirus software 
(perpetual license).  
13. Applications-specific kits and reagents required to perform 
sequencing and fragment analysis should be available from the same 
supplier.  
14. Suitable UPS for running the system with minimum of 30-min 
backup.  
15. Electrical requirement: 220 volt, 50 Hz.  
16. Starter reagents for 500 full sequencing reactions & fragment 
analysis (DNA standards for 1000 fragment analysis samples).  
17. Consumables for 3,000 full sequencing reactions and sufficient 
number of capillary arrays, and all other consumables to run 20,000 
samples should be included in the offer & supplied in 4 instalments 
over a period of 05 years as and when required. All consumables for 
sequencing and fragment analysis should be quoted separately and 
the prices of all the items should be frozen for seven years.  
18. Warranty: Five years.  
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Automated DNA Sequencer (8 channel) with capacity of up gradation to 24 capillary 
Admn/Tender/34/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19. CMC for five years after warranty period  
20. Turnkey: Temperature and humidity control device to be quoted. 
IMPORTANT CLAUSES  
1. Detailed literatures (all originals) with technical specifications 
and features to be sent along with the offer.  
2. Complete installation and testing of the equipment to its 
specifications and operator training by vendor service engineer to be 
done at the site of installation free of cost on the operation of the 
instrument, chemistry options and software. 
 3. Vendor should have at least 10 installations in India.  
4. Availability of local service support and response time for a 
service call during and after warranty should be specified.  
 5. List of users of the quoted model along with their full contact 
details (including telephone numbers and email IDs) should be 
enclosed with the offer. 


