--- Page 4 ---
AIIMS/MG/Proc/06/Tender/2022-23/ Electro Surgical Unit 
Page 4 of 34 
 
THE SCOPE OF WORK / SCHEDULE OF REQUIREMENT 
1. Bids are invited from Manufacturer’s/Authorized Distributors/ Authorized Dealers/ 
Supplier companies, to supply high-quality Equipment/ Instruments as per the Technical 
Specification and Standard mentioned in the Schedule of requirement. 
2. Description of Equipment along with accessories for given in below. Tenderer should 
arrange demo of item to faculty/officers (Technical Specification Committee) for display/ 
testing of the equipment if necessary.   
3. Companies well known in the line of manufacturing/Authorized Distributor/Dealer of the 
Equipment/Instruments/ should only quote as per our requirement and the supply /Delivery 
time is 3 weeks (i.e., 21 Days) only after the issue of Purchase Order. 
4. The required in-situ works like minor Electrical/Plumbing/Civil/any other Engineering 
Works, any accessories and consumables during the warranty period, if any required for 
Equipment/Instrument installation for making it operational at client site, will carried out 
and borne by the Successful L-1 Agency, and for this purpose no extra payment, what so 
ever will not paid by AIIMS Mangalagiri to any Agency. Accordingly, the vendor may bid. 
 Technical Specpification  
 
Specifications for Electro Surgical Unit /Diathermy /Cautery 
1 
System should come with Micro-processor-based technology with capacity of 300 watts 
with monopolar and bipolar modes available.  
2 
It should have capacity to monitor changes in tissue impedance by 4,00,000- 4,50,000 
times per second to produce consistent clinical tissue effects and adjust the energy 
output accordingly. 
3 
It should come with touch screen display for ease of use and should display error alerts 
also. 
4 
It should be compatible with three button cautery pencil to use advanced monopolar 
mode like cut / coagulation with single button and independently also with cut & 
coagulation button and have a capacity to use lower power settings resulting in less char, 
less thermal spread and less arcing than a traditional monopolar coagulation mode 
5 
It Should have Auto Bipolar Mode to use Bipolar Energy without Bipolar Foot Switch. 
6 
It should have atleast 4 different modes for Bipolar Energy Usage. 
8 
It should have Pure Cut / Blend Cut modes in Monopolar Cut energy. 
9 
It should have different modes like soft / fulgurate / shared fulgurate / shared spray / 
spray modes in Monopolar Coagulation energy. 
10 It should come with internal memory of 8GB storage capacity to store events & errors 
11 It should be compatible with other devices, including: 
a. Smoke Evacuator. 
12 Unit should perform self-test during Power ON. 
13 Unit should have Digital Wattage Indications for Bipolar, Monopolar Cut and 
Coagulation. 
14 Unit should have Two Monopolar out puts to use by two surgeons simultaneously. 
S. No. 
Item Description 
Req. Qty. 
1 
Electro Surgical unit 
1 No. 


--- Page 5 ---
AIIMS/MG/Proc/06/Tender/2022-23/ Electro Surgical Unit 
Page 5 of 34 
 
15 Unit should have Audio Visual Patient Plate Error Monitoring System. 
16 Unit should have Split Type Patient Plate contact quality monitoring System for 
Maximum Patient Safety, with separate pediatric and neonatal patient plates  (Unit 
should not be delivering power until and unless maximum area of the patient plate is 
attached to patient body to minimize the risk of intra-operative cautery burns) 
17 Monopolar Coagulation Should consist Spray for Non-Contact Coagulation 
19 Unit should be compatable with three button monopolar pencil which can be used to 
adjust the power output of the machine from the sterile field itself. 
20 Unit should Have Facility to use monopolar and bipolar function without Switchover. 
21 Unit should have simultaneous coagulation facility in monopolar coagulation. 
21 Unit should have a facility to use auto bipolar mode by setting delay time of up to 2.5 
seconds 
22 Unit should have facility to enable Auto Bipolar & Ammeter as per the requirement 
23 The system should have current ammeter, to display the conductivity of the bipolar 
energy. 
24 Should be able to use shared coagulation in monopolar mode and should have an option 
to enable and disable the shared coagulation facility also.  
25 Should have an option to enable and disable auto bipolar as per the requirement from 
the surgeon  
26 There should be soft coagulation mode to do precise surgeries  
27 It should have facility to use shared coagulation mode with two pencils of two buttons 
or one pencil of two buttons & one pencil of three buttons 
28 System should be software Upgradable for future features usage 
29 Unit Should Have US FDA and European CE Approved 
30 Maximum power output for coagulation mode may be 150 W or lesser and bipolar mode 
may be 100W or lesser  
Output Waveforms: 
For Bipolar Mode, monopolar cut mode should be More than 400 kHz continuous 
sinusoid, and for coagulation mode may be more than 400kHz with repetition frequency 
ranging at 20-30kHz with duty cycle of 4 - 8 % 
33 System should have standards of IEC 60601-1:2012 for Leakage Currents & Patient 
Auxiliary Currents 
34 System Should be Defibrillator proof with standards of (IEC 60601-1, IEC 60601-2-2, 
and ANSI/AAMI HF18) 
35 System should have safety standards for Liquid spillage/Ingress so that in normal usage 
it should not wet electrical insulation or other components, which when wetted are likely 
to adversely affect the safety of the equipment 
36 System should have standards of Voltage Transients-Energy Platform mains transfer 
(IEC 60601-1, IEC 60601-2-2, and ANSI/AAMI HF18) so that system continues to 
operate normally with no errors or system failures when transfer is made between line 
AC and an emergency system voltage source. The system may momentarily shut down 
in safe mode  
37 Should provide All software updates free of cost during warranty period 
38 Foot switch should be available for both monopolar and bipolar modes  
39 Should provide monopolar and bipolar hand pencils separately with various 
configurations and fine/needle tip separately 
40 Should have a warranty of at least 5 years 
 
 


