--- Page 48 ---
 
 
 Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Flow Track Cardiac Output Monitor 
 
Page 45 of 66 
 
 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Flow Track Cardiac 
Output Monitor  
1. 
Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ 
quotation clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the 
firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
2) Technical Specifications of Flow Track Cardiac Output Monitor  
S. 
No. 
Technical Specifications for Flow Track Cardiac Output Monitor  
1. 
Should measure continuous cardiac output with any standard arterial line catheter. No 
calibration should be required for starting the cardiac output measurement. 
2. 
Arterial pressure waveform monitoring should be continuously online 
3. 
Response time to measure Cardiac Output should not exceed 20 seconds with 
provision for average of five minutes 
4. 
Should continuously display hemodynamic parameters like MAP, Systolic BP, Diastolic 
BP & derived parameters like stroke volume, strove volume variation, pulse pressure 
variation. In addition should be able to give values for systemic vascular resistance 
with central venous catheter. Other indices like cardiac index should be displayed. It 
should also be able to calculate extravascular lung water index and ScVO2 & SVO2. 
5. 
It should have the ability to analyze the patient’s response to fluid challenge or 
changes in position or other interventions. All these interventions must be categorized 
into the time at which they were performed and stored for retrospective analysis. 
6. 
Upgradation facility should be provided for low-invasive and highly invasive technology. 
7. 
Monitor should be touch screen with minimum screen size of 10 inches and have a 
display capacity of at least 4 numerical display and 4 trend lines. 
8. 
Should have trend range for 72 hours 


--- Page 49 ---
 
 
 Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Flow Track Cardiac Output Monitor 
 
Page 46 of 66 
 
9. 
Digital display should be clear and visible with the same resolution from any angle 
10. 
Should have original manufacturer pole mounting facility 
11. 
Should have facility for communication interface with computer and printer 
12. 
Should have image and data transferring option onto the USB device and screenshot 
saving options. 
13. 
Should work on AC mains (existing supply), should be supplied with compatible UPS. 
14. 
Should have battery backup for two hours 
15. 
Should have easy user friendly controls 
16. 
Should be light in weight and mountable on pole. 
17. 
Accessories: 
Should be supplied with two-pressure cardiac output cable compatible with monitor 
for arterial and central venous pressure monitoring and one central venopus oximetry 
catheter cable compatible with monitor. 
18. 
Consumables with monitor: 
Arterial sensors (transducers) compatible with cable and monitor – 10 Nos. 
Oximetry catheters compatible with cable and monitor – 5 Nos. 
Noninvasive finger cuff – 5 Nos. 
Prices of all consumables should be frozen for three years, spare parts and 
consumables should be available for 10 years from date of purchase 
• 
Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description 
as per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item 
Description 
offered 
by 
Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. 
Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the 
TE document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years 
from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work 
from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & 
handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty 
period by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) 
basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty 
period. 
2. 
After Sales Service:  
After 
sales 
service 
center 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service 
should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the 
Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 


