--- Page 39 ---
 
 
GTE No.: AIIMS/ R/CS/URO/22/17/GT 
 
Page 39 of 74 
 
 
Annexure-I 
Technical Specifications of Surgical Microscope: 
1. Working distance:  
200-620 mm or better, with Over head design continuously variable through motorized multi 
focal lens, activated through Hand grips and through control panel. Manually adjustable 
override. 
2. Magnification range:  
Maximum magnification of the microscope should be at least 19x or better must be controlled 
by motorized hand grip without any additional image multiplier.  
3. Focusing:  
Motorized via multi focal lens activated through Hand Grip & Touch screen control panel. 
Manually adjustable override. The system must provide automatic focusing. 
4. Binocular tube:  
Main Surgeon Binocular Tube should be Tiltable binocular tube 0 to 180 degree or better with 
12.5x /10x widefield eyepieces with dioptric setting +5D to -8D. 
5. Light Source: 
300W Xenon illumination with integrated 300W Xenon back-up with fast action lamp change 
over.  
6. Illumination Field Diameter:   
Should have built in automatic zoom-synchronized illumination field diameter, with manual 
override and reset feature. 
7. Automated illumination control:  
Should have Automated Illumination. Brightness control should be linked to working distance. 
Illumination also can be controlled by hand switch or foot switch.  
8. Hand grip & Foot control panel:  
Microscope hand grip should have facility to control Motorized Focus, Motorized Zoom, 
Illumination, Video & Photo recording & Magnetic clutches for all 6 axis movement. Multi-
functional wireless Foot switch should be supplied along with the microscope.  
9. Face to Face Attachment for Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery:  
Microscope should have Symmetrically configured face to face attachment with binocular tube 
0 to 180 degree or better with Eye piece 10x or 12.5x  wide field eyepiece with integrated eye 
cups, for & diopter correction of +5D to -8D. 
10. Balancing:  
The system must provide a one touch automatic balancing of all system axes without any 
manual Interaction or axis adjustments.  
11. Beam Splitter: 
Integrated Beam Splitter (not Visible from outside / separate attachment). 
12. Camera: 
Fully Integrated 3-Chip HD Medical Grade Video Camera (Camera not Visible from outside) 
So that maximum resolution will display & record. External/attachable camera will not be 
considered.  
 
13. Display:  


--- Page 40 ---
 
 
GTE No.: AIIMS/ R/CS/URO/22/17/GT 
 
Page 40 of 74 
 
Full HD Medical grade 24" or better touchscreen display system attached with the microscope 
system. No External Monitor/detachable monitor will be acceptable. 
 
14. Recording: 
Full HD inbuilt video recording system with integrated HDD of at least 1TB. 
External/attachable recorder will not be considered.  
 
15. XY Movement:  
For precise positioning of the microscope, the system must offer a motorized XY movement, 
providing in any (even horizontal) position of the optical axis a correct XY movement.  
 
16. Automatic focusing: 
Microscope should have facility to autofocus with single button press. 
 
17. Damping Correction:  
System should have robotic control active vibration damping mechanism to avoid disturbing 
vibrations.  
 
18. Microscope must have BIS or US FDA or European CE with 4-digit notified body no. 
certificate for the intended use. 
 
19. Microscope must be upgradable for intra-operative fluorescence for the visual assessment of 
patency of vessels joined by anastomosis. 
 
20. 5-years warranty & 5-years CMC should be provided. 
 
 
 Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description as 
per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item Description 
offered by Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 41 ---
 
 
GTE No.: AIIMS/ R/CS/URO/22/17/GT 
 
Page 41 of 74 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document for complete 
equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period 
will be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date 
of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by double the 
downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) 
X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service 
should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the spares for the 
equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents (if they have the 
requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The 
same will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes preventive maintenance 
including testing & calibration as per technical/ service /operational manual of the manufacturer, labour 
and spares, after satisfactory completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly 
basis for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) 
and Site Modification Work (if any). The supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended in the 
manufacturer’s technical/ service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive 
maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender Opening. The taxes 
to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken 
inclusive of such taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be taken at Net Present 
Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory completion of said period, 
duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee for 3% of the cost of the CMC as per Section 
XV valid till 2 months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis, with 
penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee‟s site at least twice in 6 months 
(i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the 
successful completion of warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the Bank Guarantee for 
Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 42 ---
 
 
GTE No.: AIIMS/ R/CS/URO/22/17/GT 
 
Page 42 of 74 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, wherever required. The 
Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be installed, in consultation with HOD of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College 
concerned. 
Site 
Modification 
Work 
details 
of 
each 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices 
indicating break-up of prices of the Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College. The Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken 
inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note1:Tenderer‟s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The tenderer is to provide 
the required details, information, confirmations, etc. accordingly failing which it‟s tender is liable to 
be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of equipment for carrying out 
routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked for and should make sure that Electrical Safety 
Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS 
Safety Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 60601 is a 
part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they should provide a 
commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional 
Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development Centres across the country on every preventive 
maintenance call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface interoperability 
conditions for networked equipment in hospital management information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical training for 
personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at the institute immediately after 
its installation. The company shall be required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum 
period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC period 


