--- Page 16 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Micro/17/32/PAC 
 
Page 16 of 20 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
DETAILED TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR 
AUTOMATED RAPID MYCOBACTERIAL CULTURE & SENSITIVITY SYSTEM 
(Make-BD,Model-BACTEC MGIT 960) 
 
S. 
No. 
Item Description 
 
   1 
System should be capable of performing rapid culture,differentiation and sensitivity 
testing for Mycobacterial. 
 
2 
System should be based on non-invasive technology; ensuring no bottle puncturing 
during sample analysis. 
3 
System-working principle should be on non-radiometric technology. 
4 
System should be able to process minimum 15 fresh samples per day with standard 
international negative protocol of 6 weeks. 
   5 
Should have more than 900 sample positions with compact space-saving design. 
6 
System should be able to monitor growth of organisms in each sample positions continously 
7 
System should have continous online automatic quality control check coupled with Barcode 
Scanner. 
8 
System should not involve use of any sharp at the time of sample inoculation to avoid any 
needle stick injury to user. 
9 
System should be capable of performing tests to differentiate typical and atypical 
mycobacterial within 3-4 days’ time.  
10 
System should be able to process both respiratory & non-respiratory samples. 
11 
System should have the additive reagents – to make isolation media selective and enriched for 
better isolation. 
12 
Company should have its own ready –to-use digestion and decontamination kit for better 
sample processing and reduced contamination rate. 
13 
System should be supplied along with ready-to-use lyophilized drug vial for entire range of 
1st Line Drug Sensitivity testing – S,I,R,E,P with certificate of analysis from manufacturing 
units. 
14 
System should be supplemented with ready-to-use Pyrazinamide Test media to avoid any 
false results in sensitivity testing. 
15 
Company should have its own factory certified drug kit for 1st Line Drug Sensitivity Testing 
for 5 drugs along with Pyrazinamide  Drug Media. 
16 
System should have a validated protocol to perform 1st Line Drug Sensitivity Testing. 
17 
First Line Drug Kit /Media and its protocol should be FDA cleared and approved. 
18 
SYSTEM SHOULD BE ABLE TO GENERATE THE INTERPRETATION OF 1ST LINE DRUG 
SUSCEPTIBILITY TESTING,AUTOMATICALLY. 
19 
System should be able to perform second drug sensitivity testing and should have a validated 
protocol to perform 2nd Line Drug Sensitivity Testing. 
20 
System should be supplied along with additional computer for data storage. 
21 
Suitable online UPS (warranty from due of installation) with maintenance free batteries with 1 
hour back-up to be supplied along with the system. 
22 
System should have provision for furture software upgradation. 
23 
System should be approved by Central TB Division, GOI for liquid Culture Facility. 
24 
Consumable  for at least 200 samples each should be provided free of charge along with kit 
for rapid identification of isolates. 
25 
Latest  work-Station with relevant software should be provided with computer system having 


--- Page 17 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Micro/17/32/PAC 
 
Page 17 of 20 
 
S. 
No. 
Item Description 
 
latest Microsoft Windows Professional Operating System with Licensed MS Office(Standard 
2010 version), Intel core i7 processor,8 GB RAM, 2GB graphic, 1TB Hard Disk, Cd/DVD 
Writer, Wireless Keyboard, Wireless Mouse, and Full HD 23” LED of reputed make and 
suitable online UPS capable of 1 hour power back-up.The software should be equipped with 
latest version of a reputed (Norton,McAfee,Kaspersky,Avira)antivirus program with 
subscription for 5 years 
26 
System should be supplied with high end database management system which can 
integerated to Hospital/Lab information system for bi-directional information flow 
for patient data and information. 
27 
System should be supplied along with additional Laser-Jet Printer with minimum 
output of 3000 pages with single cartridge. 
28 
The supplier should provide comprehensive training to users on operation of the 
instrument,software and application support onsite as per specifications. 
29 
The equipment should come with 5 years’ warranty and 5 years’ CMC after the lapse of the 
warranty period. 
30 
The cost of calibration, including  consumables required for callibration, should be included 
within the warranty. 
31 
Certifications – CE(EU)/US-FDA. 
 
 
Store Officer 
AIIMS, Raipur 
 
 
 
 
 
 


