--- Page 17 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Obst. & Gynae/398/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 17 
 
 
Upon the successful and timely submission of bids (i.e. after Clicking “Freeze Bid Submission” in the 
portal), the portal will give a successful bid submission message & a bid Tender No. : ................................. 
summary will be displayed with the bid no. and the date & time of submission of the bid with all other 
relevant details. 
 
 
The bid summary has to be printed and kept as an acknowledgement of the submission of the bid. This 
acknowledgement may be used as an entry pass for any bid opening meetings. 
 
ASSISTANCE TO BIDDERS 
 
 
Any queries relating to the tender document and the terms and conditions contained therein should be 
addressed to the Tender Inviting Authority for a tender or the relevant contact person indicated in the tender. 
 
 
Any queries relating to the process of online bid submission or queries relating to CPP Portal in general may 
be directed to the 24x7 CPP Portal Helpdesk number 0120-4200462, 0120- 4001002. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Technical Specifications for e4D Ultrasound Machine 
1. System should be the latest "State of the Art" fully digital ultrasound equipment capable of performing OBS-
GYN, intra cavitary High resolution scanning specially first trimister scans & Should have Electronic convex 


--- Page 18 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Obst. & Gynae/398/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 18 
 
4D volume probe 
2. The system should have the following modes : B-Mode (2D), Conventional M-Mode with varying sweep rates, 
anatomical M-Mode, PW doppler with high PRF (PW), High PRF Doppler Mode , (TD)-Tissue Doppler mode, 
colour flow doppler mode (CFM), Power Doppler Mode(PD), Directional power Doppler, HD-Flow Doppler 
Mode (HD-Flow) and B-Flor (BG), B/Colour/FW, volume modes 3D static , Real time 4D Mode, VCI- A, VCI 
- Curved/ Omniview, STIC & Advance STIC with AMM, eSTIC , 4D Biopsy, Live Bi-plane. 
3. Power doppler angio imaging for perfusion studies for visualization of flow in small vessels and should be 
supported by all transducers. Electronic sector, Electronic Convex, Electronic Linear, Mechanical Volume 
Sweep, Electronic volume sweep, Matrix technology probe. 
4. The System should be having a minimum of 46,000,000 system processing channel technology 
5.  Tissue Doppler Mode (TD) - Should allow high frame rate acquisition of tissue motion (up to 400 fps) 
6.  Volume imaging, multislice imaging  with variable slice thickness( 0.5 - 10 mm)  and multiplanar imaging on 
all types of 3D and 4D modes. 
7. System should have facility for volume 3D/4D with high ultra light  4D convex volume probe  and High 
Frequency 4D volume EV probe (on both gray scale and colour doppler modes) 
8.  Should be capable of performing live 4D imaging with volume transducers.  4D imaging should be possible in 
gray scale, colour mode, harmonic mode and with contrast agent imaging.  Instant rendering of MPR images 
should be possible that rival acquired 2D resolution 
9. Elastography analysis & Elastography ratio measurement-should be available into the elastography mode.  
System should have indicator for compression level with side-by side display of 2D image and 2D with graphical 
representation, elastogram images, preferred in TV probe. 
10. System should have facility for dynamic range selections, dynamic resolution selection and different 
optimization for settings for different tissue compositions, colour coded display with parametric imaging 
11.  Dynamic range should be 274dB or more with range adjustability by selecting different dynamic contrast curves.  
Higher dynamic range will be preferred 
12.  In a  2D  scanning - Min depth  of field 0-1 cm & Max depth of field 0-36 cm (probe dependent) 
13. 256 (8 bits) discrete gray levels 
14. system should have 23 inch high resolution LED  display with DVI interface resolution of FHD 1920 X 1080 
Pixel.High brightness with 300 CD/M2, 
15. 2D acquisition frame rate more than 500 frames/sec, colour doppler frame rate more than 300/S 
16. The system should have the latest  platform of  Matrix  technology/ Matrix probe   availability.& Electronic 4D 
probe  for better Speed and IQ 
17. Real time compounding with colour or power doppler imaging 
18. Multiple frequency selection for better penetration and resolution for better tissue differentiation and better 
contrast resolution. 
19. Post processing tools for annotation, measurement, correction of angle, baseline, sweep speed should be possible 
on stored images 
20. System should have multivariate Tissue Harmonic Imaging including pulse inversion phase cancellation 
technology and coded harmonics on all transducers. 
21. It should be able to operate with compound imaging and speckle reduction algorithm 
22. System should have on touch tissue contrast resolution adjustment without altering the set presets levels. 
23. System should have real time compounding imaging technology with minimum 9 transmitted lines of sight. 
24. Real time compound imaging should operates in conjuction with Tissue Harmonic imaging, volume modes, 
panoramic imaging, and duplex doppler and in conjuction with speckle reduction imaging 
25. High resolution algorithms for advanced speckle noise reduction, refined tissue pattern displays and fine border 
definition. 
26. Should operate in 2D and 2D/CH/Doppler mixed modes (up to 150 frames per second) and with 3D and contrast 
agent imaging. 
27. This feature shall have operator selectable settings and be capable of displaying in side by side mode with non 
speckle reduced image 
28. Should have trapezoidal imaging and steerable imaging for 2D, colour and doppler with linear probe 
29. Panoramic / extended field of view imaging should be available on convex and linear transducers. 
30. This mode should build the extended field of view in a real time manner, showing the image as it builds 
31. One button automatic adjustment / optimization for 2D mode, colour mode and doppler mode with auto 
correction of relevant fields of the mode used 
32. Incorporates advanced pulse shaping, coding excitation using new chirp transmit technology and coded 
harmonics mode for imaging deeper areas and obese patients. Additionally technology if available for imaging 
obese patients will be preferred 


--- Page 19 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Obst. & Gynae/398/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 19 
 
33. The system should have a fast boot up time less than 200 seconds, when switch ON from OFF position and also 
less than 60 second from STANDBY position.  Specify the system booting time less will be preferred 
34. System should have high capacity fans with automatic speed for system cooling 
35. Year of introduction of the specific model - should be as latest as possible, preferably should have been launches 
with in 1-2 years 
36. Unique user friendly user interface for comfort and fast throughput System controls 
37. System should have at least 45 automated and user programmable presents (output power signal processing and 
calculations) 
38. System should have facility to adjust 2D performance instantly for different patient types (thin, average, obese) 
39. The system shall display thumbnails on a clipboard with live gray mode while scanning to facilitate exams 
40. Pan and zoom facility with high resolution results in both live and frozen images 
41. Higher zoom will be preferred with HD zoom functionality upto 22 x zoom 
42. Cine loop review facility in individual and mixed modes (frame by frame and in video mode), 2D : up to 10 min 
(depending on B-Image size and FPS); typical; about 3 min/4000 images (with curved array : 15 cm depth, 
43. M mode : upto 20 min motion time (depending on sweep speed and depth) 
44. Doppler mode : up to 10 min motion time (depending on sweep speed) 
45. Post processing in freeze mode (dynamic Range adjustment, colour display on / off, colour / doppler invert, 
colour / doppler baseline adjustment, sweept speed, measurement, annotationand pictogram).  Post processing 
of B-Mode images with Speckle Reduction Algorithm 
46. Real time automatic doppler calculations on touch of a button. Should provide facility to apply automatic doppler 
analysis retrospectively to frozen spectral data or date retrieved from doppler scrolling.  Possibility of manual 
doppler trace 
47. System should have at least  8 calipers with depth information and extensive, customizable measurement and 
report packages including vascular, abdominal, small parts, urology, pediatrics, ortho, neurology, complete 
obstetrics, multigestational calculations, gynecology, and fetal heart report packages. 
48.  Calipers should have minimum precision of 0.1mm , small size calipers for measuring < 5mm 
49. Calipers of dynamically varying contrast compared to background.  Delete last measurement option, curved 
linear distance measurement 
50. Measurement (Distance and areas) should be possible in real time on frozen and on saved images of the old 
patients data for better comparison and clinical confidence. 
51. System should have facility to save reports along with patient data which can be retrieved later.  Measured 
parameters must be printed directly in from of a report through laser printer or any other standard printers easily 
available in the market 
52. System should have facility of real time biopsy in 4D mode for the better visualization in 2d as well in all the 
three necessary plan / Axis.  The system should be capable of displaying biopsy lines (for all transducers) while 
performing a 2D scan. 
53. 3D / 4D MODE 
54. System should have Vol scan size max 64 MB for the grey volumes and max 90MB for the color volumes , the 
reqd memory space depends on the scanning parameters (vol BOX size and quality ( low, mid, height etc ) 
typical .8-5MB. 
55. Volumes - frame/ sec max 359. depending on the scanning parameters . 
56. Systems should have following  acquisition modes ;- 3D static, 3D (2d incl CRI), 3D /CFM (incl CRI), 3D B 
Flow, 4D real time  , 4D BIOSPY, STIC & eSTIC , Vci- Omniview . 
57. Speed adjustment on volume imaging 
58. Different render direction to view the volume image 
59. Advanced tool for accurate quantification of irregular regions in 3D  and automatically calculates the number 
and volume of hypo echoic structures to speed follicular assessments. 
60. Ability to restrict firing of the probe to a particular slice thickness of the region of interest. 
61. Advanced tool for selection of slice thickness out of complete volume dataset 
62. 4D fetal echo - 2D + colour + B Flor, STIC + Power doppler mode 
63. STIC + CFM doppler mode, STIC + HD Flow Mode, STIC+CRI 
64. STIC + CRI+CFM, STIC+CFI+PD 
65. STIC+CRI+HD-flow, STIC + B-Flow 
66. STIC + multislice mode with cine movement 
67. Advanced imaging mode for visualization of hypo echoic areas and get automatic precise volume. 
68. Simultaneous visualization of 3 planes and 3D to guide the needle to the lesion 
69. Transforming nuchal thickness measurement with automation 
70. Should have auto 3D/4D rendering as well to get the best of 3D in fraction of second with one touch &  should 


--- Page 20 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Obst. & Gynae/398/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 20 
 
have same technology / feature in the real time 4D as well 
71. Advanced Spatio temporal image correlation with STIC anatomical M Mode , & eSTIC 
72. Semi automated tool to provide quantifiable NT & IT  measurements. 
73. Automated sonography based technology helps streamline the acquisition of volumetric images of the fetal heart, 
displaying all recommended views with the push on one button. 
74. 3D automated software dedicated to progression of labour (automatically documents the labour procedure to 
help users evaluate second stage labour progression (optional). 
75. System should have Volume SRI (V-SRI) which helps to provide a high level of speckle reduction utilizing 
volume/voxels, versus traditional single slice imaging, it helps improve 3d/4d quality in multi-planar studies and 
also provides an enhanced smoothing effect on rendered images which helps improve diagnostic confidence. 
76. System should have free moveable light source around following 3D object , 3D rendering  image , VOCAL 
object. 
77. Systems  should have latest rendering modes  like  hdlive silhouette - to show the internal clinical information  
of the fetus , HD live flow ,  transparerancy modes, max - min  & xray , light. 
78. System should have the facility of take the Automatic measurement of the AC, BPD, HC, FL  for the better 
productivity and time save . 
79. System should have BI- PLANE mode available with electronic 4D probe  with scan angle of B mode angle of 
75 deg & Bi Plane angle of 90 deg, 
 
         SYSTEM SHOULD HAVE FOLLOWING PHYSICAL  DIMENSIONS 
80. The monitor should be 23" high resolution LED monitor with articulating arms with resolution of up to 
1280x1024 pixel. 
81.  Customizable layout to match  workflow needs 
82. Report preview enabling facility for  immediate feedback on diagnostic  measurements. 
83. should have  Image presentation in Standard or XL format to  allow doctors  to see tiny details clearly. 
84. Should have One touch responsiveness. Simplified workflow. 
85. should have  12.1” Touch Panel with multi-touch 
86. should have Electronic TGC and presenting as well for the same 
87. Should have  Efficient menu navigation with swipe technology 
88. should have Quick and easy 1-button control panel up/down function movement which allows for optimal 
ergonomics. 
89. system should have Probe port illumination which will help in the connectivity and removal of the probe 
connectors in dark room conditions for the privacy of the patients 
90. System should have Fast, secure data management for efficient communication, integrated software Digital 
video recording including USB recording, Fast USB 3.0 connectivity, Easy DICOM integration. 
91. The equipment should be a room based wheeled unit with integrated brake, foot rest, transducer, cable and gel 
bottle holder and with electronic height adjustment facility for control panel and monitor independently.  
Transducer and gel bottle holders should be removable. 
92. There should be a digital brightness and contrast adjustment with preferable three default setting (dark room, 
semi dark room, bright room). 
93. System should have a full size alphanumeric key board with interactive back - lighting. 
94. The key board should be floating with rotation of +/- 40 deg from center, and with adjustable height of +200 
mm. 
95. Integrated recording keys  for remote control of up to 4 peripherals or DICOM devices one dedicated DVD 
recording key. 
96. The system shall have 4 universal probe ports in a convenient ( 3 active at a time) easy to access location with 
electronic switching facility. 
97. Must allow digital storage of gray scale as well as colour images (both frozen and cine loops). 
98. Facility of reviewing and exporting in different formats. 
99. System shall support the ability to store digital raw data that allows optimizing imaging parameters such as B 
Gain, TGC, Colour gain, dynamic range, speckle reduction levels, doppler gain, doppler base line on image 
recalled from the image archive. 
100. The system should have on board storage facility for at least 500 GB. 
101. The hard drive should be inbuilt. 
102. The system shall provide the ability to sort images stored on board based on patient name, exam date, patient id 
and exam types, patent directly should show network status as print status, archive status, commit status and 


