--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Pul-Med/17/4977/OT 
 
 
 
Page 18 of 24 
 
Annexure - I 
        TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION  
 
        POLYSOMNOGRAPHY (SLEEP STUDY) 
 
FOR DEPARTMENT OF PULMONARY MEDICINE  
  
 
Technical Specifications- for Polysmnography (Sleep Study) 
 
1    Description of Function - 
 
1.1 Polysomnography and sleep studies are performed to diagnose illness or 
syndromes  related to sleep 
 
2   Operational Requirements  
2.1 System complete with all hardware and software is required 
3   Technical Specifications  
3.1 Total Number of Channels should be         :      More than 60 
a)   EEG input should be                                 :      32 
b)   The machine should have EMG input of    :      5 
c)   The machine should have EOG of              :      2 
d)   The machine should have ECG                  :      7 (3 Physical and 4 derived) 
e)   Nasal /oral/Airflow                                    :      1 
f)   Flow (Thermal)                                            :      1 
g)  Respiratory Effort , Zrip                              :      2 
h)  Snoring, Microphone                                  :      1 
i)   Body Position                                             :       1 
j)   CPAP Pressure                                           :      1 
k)  Limb Movement                                         :      2 
l)   SaO2 [Masimo/Nonin/Nellcor/FAST]        :      1 
m) Pulse rate                                                 :      1 
n) Light sensor                                              :      1 
o) Sensors                                                     :       2 
3.2 Sensor- pediatric and adult, microphone, pulse Oximeter sensor and leads) of 
ECG, EEG, Leg & chin EMG, EOG 
3.3 Additional 8 DC channels for external peripherals like capnography, PH, blood 
pressure Monitor etc. 
3.4 Other Technical Specifications  
a)  Pressure transducer for nasal air flow 
b)  Automatic chin EMG referencing                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                      P.T.O  
        


--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Pul-Med/17/4977/OT 
 
 
 
Page 19 of 24 
 
c) Integrated Pulse Oximeter.  
d) on screen impedance check   
e) Pulse transit time (PTT)                                                                                                       
f)  Adjustable gain and notch filter.  
g) Full compressed raw data stored on all channels.   
h) Facility for fully synchronized and integrated patient video recording and 
monitoring. 
i) Video camera should be networked 
j) Real time Access to studies for analysis currently being recorded from the 
review/recording station.  
k) Data replay software operates on Microsoft, Window XP, Window Vista, and 
Window 7 professional. Computer System with 8 GB RAM & 500 GB Hard Disk. And 
Colour Printer (Laser). 
l) Computer interface through LAN for integration into hospital network. 
m) Portable recording workstations can operate anywhere/on standalone basis.  
n) Screen resolution from 800 X 600 to 1200 X 1600  
o) User definable Montages, montage changes  
p) User configurable reports-All night dump sleep stage summary, Arousal summary 
etc.  
q) Automatic Sleep Staging with manual override, Respiratory / PLM¡¦s analysis, 
Neurological events.  
r) Independent, selectable time basis for upper & lower portions of the screen enabling 
the see fast moving traces like EEG and Slower respiratory waveforms on the lower 
half.  
s) Capnography Should Be there [accuracy ± 0.1% ] 
t) Titration device should have modes like: CPAP, Auto CPAP, BIPAP, Adaptive 
ventilator. (Same make) 
4. System Configuration Accessories, spares and consumables  
5.    Environmental factors  
5.1 Shall meet IEC-60601-1-2:2001(Or Equivalent BIS) General Requirements of  
      Safety for Electromagnetic Compatibility. or should comply with 89/366/EEC;  
      EMC-directive. 
 
5.2 The unit shall be capable of operating continuously in ambient temperature of  
      20- 30 deg C and relative humidity of 30-70% 
 
6 Power Supply  
6.1 Power input to be 220-240VAC, 50Hz fitted with Indian plug  
6.2 UPS of suitable rating with voltages regulation and spike protection for 60 
minutes back up. 
7 Standards, Safety and Training  
7.1 Should be US FDA approved  
7.2 Manufacturer should have ISO certification for quality standards.  
                                                                                                                         P.T.O.           


--- Page 20 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Pul-Med/17/4977/OT 
 
 
 
Page 20 of 24 
 
                                                                                       
7.3 Comprehensive training for lab staff and support services till familiarity with the  
       System.  
7.4 Electrical safety conforms to standards for electrical safety IEC 60601-1 (OR  
      EQUIVALENT international/national standard) General requirement for Electrical  
      safety of Medical Equipment. 
8 Documentation  
8.1 User/Technical/Maintenance manuals to be supplied in English.  
8.2 List of important spare parts and accessories with their part number and costing.  
8.3 Compliance Report to be submitted in a tabulated and point wise manner clearly 
mentioning the page/para number of original catalogue/data sheet. Anypoint ,if not 
substantiated with authenticated catalogue/manual, will not be considered.  
8.4 Certificate of calibration and inspection.  
8.5 List of Equipments available for providing calibration and routine Preventive 
Maintenance Support  as per manufacturer documentation in service/technical 
manual. 
9 Interior  
9.1   2 ton spilt ac  for each room  [Daikin/O-Genral/hitachi/Mitsubisi] 
9.2   one double bed one sofa, cubud 
9.3   40 inch lcd tv [sony/samsung/sharp/philips/panasonic] 
9.4   sound proofing [more than 10db sound] 
9.5   false floring as well as POP with LED lighting  
 
Five Years Warranty / CMC with provision of consumables supplies free of 
cost. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 21 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Pul-Med/17/4977/OT 
 
 
 
Page 21 of 24 
 
        
Warranty and CMC: 
 Should provide Warranty period:  As per mentioned on the Annexure and CMC after warranty 
as per mentioned on the Annexure. 
 Availability of spares for at least 10 years after date of installation.  
 Comprehensive  warranty   would  include  all  parts-plastic, metallic,  glass,  batteries  and  
rubber  (without  any  exclusion)  except the consumable accessories listed above.  
 Comprehensive warranty  would include periodic checking and  periodic  calibration  of  all  
parameters  strictly  as  per manufacturer’s  recommendations  (at  least  every  6  month)  
and  any spares or standards required for that.  
 Should have online and telephonic registration of the complaints.  
 Should have resident service engineer available in Raipur within 24 hrs to solve the 
complaints.  
 Down  time  of  the  equipment  will  start  from  the  time  of  lodgement  of first complaint.  
 The company must ensure that the machine remains FULLY functional all the time for the 
period of warranty and CMC.  
 No  request  in  this  regard  will  be  entertained  on  the  pretext  of  on availability of items 
with the supplier/company.  
  Prices of all Equipments and CMC should be quoted separately and frozen for the period 
including warranty and CMC.  
 Should have local service facility and should have the necessary equipment’s to carry out 
preventive maintenance test.  
 Onsite physical demonstration and training of the equipment to all the end users with all the 
requested facilities will be mandatory.  
 Original literature, and not the photocopy, to be supplied with the quotation.  
 Company should certify that model quoted is latest and not obsolete, and spares are available 
for minimum 5 years after warranty (5 years).  
 Warranty and CMC should be provided by company and accessories should be included in 
warranty and CMC. 
 Should provide the preventive maintenance in every 6 month and also calibrate the machine 
at the time PM if required. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


