--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Flat panel C-arm with DSA 
Admn/Tender/26/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Floor 
Mounted 
lead 
protector 
(lead shield)  
Technical Specification of Digital Flat Panel Detector Mobile C - 
Arm System with Digital Subtraction Angiography:  
1. GANTRY / C-ARM  
a)   The  system  should  have  a  minimum  of  80cm  free  space  
within  the  C-Arm  to  provide  a  large imaging space.  
b)  The C-arm depth should be 70 cm or deeper to provide a large 
imaging space and C-arm clearance around the patient and the imaging 
table.  
c)  The  C-arm  should  have  a  manual  angulation  of  +/-200 degrees   
to  allow  the  imaging  chain  to  accomplish angled projections.    
d)   The C-arm field of view should be a square field of view for better 
ROI coverage. 
e)  The C-arm should have orbital movement of + 90 / - 45 degrees for 
better penetration in Crania/caudal movement.  
f)   The system should have at least 40cm of motorized vertical C-Arm 
travel capability to adjust the imaging chain height.  
g)   The  C-arm should provide  side  to  side  (wig-wag)  and  the  
horizontal  travel  movements  to  allow panning during an imaging.  
 2. GENERATOR & X-RAY TUBE  
a)   The  generator  should  be  Micro  Processor  controlled  converter  
type  with  output  of  12  KW  or more and minimum 50 kHZ 
frequency (or higher).  
b)   The system should operate in full capacity on 220 volts AC, 15 
amps.  
c)  Fluoroscopic kVp range : 40-120kVp or more  
c)   Fluoroscopic mA range : 4 mA - 60 mA  
d)   Radiographic kVp range : 40-120kVp or more  
e)  Radiographic mA range : Minimum 100mA  
f)   The  generator  should  be  capable  of  providing  pulse  fluoroscopy  
with  pulse  rates  upto  25 frames/sec.  
g)   The X-ray tube should be a rotating anode X-ray tube type.  
h)  The tube should have additional safety filtration for the stray or 
scattered radiation i.e. cu filters.  
i)   Focal spot size should be 0.3mm & 0.6mm dual focal spots.  
j)   Anode heat storage capacity should be 300 KH.U. or higher  
k)   Anode cooling capacity should be 70 kHU/min. or higher  
l)   The tube housing heat storage capacity should be a minimum of 
2000KHU.   
3. FLAT PANEL DETECTOR SYSTEM  
a)  The system should have a Flat detector of CSI with Amorphous 
Silicon doping.  
b)   The Size of the detector should be of min 28 cm X 28 cm.  
c)  The pixel size should be 200 micron or less  
d)   The system should be equipped with two high-resolution 18” 
LCD/TFT medical grade monitors or more.  
e)  The  system  should  provide  a  last  image  hold  capability  that  the  
last  image  is  displayed  on  the active monitor after the termination of 
an exposure.  
f)   The system should be equipped with touch control panel.  
g)   The system shall allow the user to change the image orientation on 
the display screen during a live exposure or using the  last image hold.  
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Flat panel C-arm with DSA 
Admn/Tender/26/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
Those functions include image rotation, and top to bottom image 
reversals.   
4. DIGITAL SYSTEM & IMAGE MANAGEMENT  
a)  The system should have multi patient data base for handling large 
quantities of image, including dose management report.  
b)   The  system  should  automatically  select  proper  imaging  
parameters,  kVp  and  mA  during  an imaging, but also provide the 
user to over-ride these setting manually.  
c)  Real time and automatic brightness and contrast should be provided 
to optimize displayed image.  
d)   The  system  should  provide  a  real  –  time  post  processing  edge  
enhancement  capabilities  to  get better  image  quality  according  to  
the  density  of  the  tissue.  An  electronic  zoom  function,  an 
automatic save function to hard disk, Mosaic Display.  
e)  The  system  should  be  capable  of  saving  more  than  5000  
images  to  the  internal  hard  disk  and retrieve stored images later.  
f)   It should have facility to record on line fluoroscopy.  
g)   It  should  have  facility  for  image  and  fluoro sequences retrieval  
on  a  CD/DVD/Pen drive.  
h)  System should have facility for DICOM connectivity and DICOM 
Ready. All DICOM functions (DICOM Send/Storage Commitment, 
DICOM Print, DICOM Query/Retrieve, and DICOM Work list/MPPS) 
should be offered. 
i) Software to enhancement the contrast of image with respect to density 
of organ should be offered, allowing the contrast of structures to be 
emphasized without loss of information in bright and dark image areas. 
J) System should have digital acquisition with and without subtraction. 
It should have road map  facility for intervention.  
5. Following Dose Reduction Package should be offered  
a) Integrated dose measuring chamber with automatic transfer of the 
accumulated dose into a radiation report. 
b) Radiation-free positioning of primary collimators through graphical 
display in the LIH image on the image monitor. 
6. Independent Post Processing Workstation 
a)The digital workstation should be based on the latest high speed processor. 
b)It should have the possibility of acquiring the images from the C-arm system and 
patient list and examination data from Hospital/Radiology Information systems (HIS
be possible. 
c)It should have image storage disk of 10,000 images or more. 
d)The system should have ready DICOM Interface and networking capability with 
RIS/HIS/PACS 
e)Post processing function must be available. 
f)Console station must be provided for image processing , image display, post proce
and networking with anti glare color monitor of  LCD type with size 19” with matri
1024 
 
7. ESSENTIAL ACCESSORIES  
A. Suitable online U.P.S. to run the system for at least 15 minutes 
should be quoted with the system. 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Flat panel C-arm with DSA 
Admn/Tender/26/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
B. Twelve lead free aprons (vest and skirt type for extended 
period of use) with following specifications: 
a. Made in ISO approved factory with EU ISO 9001:2000 
standards 
b. CE certification and conform to EC Council Directive 
EC89/686/EEC/article 11B 
c. Three Year Manufacturer Guarantee 
d. Handmade to Individual specification 
e. Full protection while weighing 30% less than traditional 
lead aprons 
f. Flexible two-piece design with wide skirt for ease of 
movement 
g. Flexible Velcro fastenings across shoulders and torso 
h. Both Vest &Skirt include full overlap in front, offering 
double protection with full protection to Front & Back. 
i. Padded shoulders to prevent forward slippage and relieve 
pressure on shoulders 
j. Optional Monogram 
 
C. Eight thyroid shields (lead free) with following specifications: 
a. Made in ISO approved factory EU ISO 9001:2000 
standards 
b. CE certification and conform to EC Council Directive 
EC89/686/EEC/article 11B 
c. Three Year Manufacturer Guarantee 
d. Full protection while weighing 30% less than traditional 
thyroid collars 
e. Adjustable Velcro Fastening 
f. Soft, Stain resistant material with choice of colours and 
design 
 
D. four gonadal shields (All sizes both for male and female). 
 
E. Radiation protection eye wear (weight not exceeding 55 
gm):Five in number(design to be finalized based on users in the 
department). 
F. Radiation protection fit over eye wear to fit over existing glasses 
weight not exceeding 100 gm): five in number  
G. Radiation protection head wear (zero lead): Six 
H. Wall mounted apron hangers(foldable): Four 
I. Adjustable and movable radiation protection shield from reputed 
make: Two 
J. Ceiling mounted light 
K. CE certified C-arm compatible table having following 
specification. 
I. Carbon fiber table top. 
II. Lateral support available. 
III. Arm support available 
IV. Removable rails 2 pieces 
V. Table top: 2450 mm 
VI. Width: 530mm 
VII. Length of Imaging:1860mm 
VIII. Width of Imaging:530mm 
IX. Lateral travel: 240mm 


--- Page 13 ---
Tender for Flat panel C-arm with DSA 
Admn/Tender/26/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
X. Longitudinal travel:840mm 
XI. Vertical travel:360mm 
XII. Trendelenburg:-18deg+18deg 
XIII. Lateral tilt:-15deg+15deg 
XIV.Load:200 Kgs. 
L. Lead Barrier: 
 
1. Lead door size 6*3 feet (height x width). 
2. Lead glass 3*2 feet (height x width). 
3. Half feet from both sides framing will be done to provide proper 
support. 
4. Top Lead glass 10mm thick, 2.2 lead equivalent mm Pb. 
5. Below lead glass there will be lead protection of size 3*3 feet. 
6. Below lead protection will be 1.5mm pb lead equivalent. 
7. Side framing will be stainless steel.  
8. Castor Johnson wheel 
9. ISO and CE certified 
 
M.  
One personnel dosimeter having capacity to measure radiation 
dose in millirem. It should also have the capacity to provide dose 
rate. 
 
8.  Site modification:  Vendor will prepare the room with wall tiling 
(2’x2’)  up to false ceiling. Gypsum false ceiling with lighting to be 
provided. PVC 3mm flooring to be provided. Room to be prepared as 
per AERB Guidelines. Two split a/c of 2 ton each of reputed make to be 
provided  
a) Dual use scrub station of reputed company with automated hand 
sterilizer solution and medicated hand sponges. 
b) Upgradation of existing scrub in the DSA room to include 
automated hand steriliser solution and medicated hand sponges 
(kindly contact Department of Radiology for any clarifications) 
c) Floor to roof tile finish for DSA room walls: please visit the 
DSA room for details regarding scope of work. 
 
9. Anesthesia workstation: 
The Anaesthesia Machine should have the following: 
1 
Should have pipelines attachment for oxygen, nitrous 
oxide and compressed air. 
2 
Should have yoke assembly for oxygen and nitrous oxide 
with pin index system. 
3 
Durable main switch to put the machine in the on or off 
position. 
4 
There should be digital control and display for oxygen & 
electronic gas mixing. 
5 
Should have safety features like : 
a. Should provide 25% or more of oxygen when an 
anaesthetic gaseous mixture is in used. 
b. Should be provided with “pneumatic/ electronic” 
hypoxic guard. 
c. Should have extra flow meters for oxygen only. 
6 
Should have oxygen flush with a flow rate of more than 
35L/min. 


--- Page 14 ---
Tender for Flat panel C-arm with DSA 
Admn/Tender/26/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 14 
 
7 
It should have alternate O2 supply mode in case 
electronic gas mixture failure  
8 
Should be able to hold two seletatec vaporizers 
(Isoflurane, Sevoflurane & Desflurane) simultaneously. 
Vapourizers should be maintenance free. Cost of 
vaporizers to be quoted separately. The anesthesia 
machine should provide desflurane compensation. 
9 
Co2 absorber system with the following features:- 
a. Single/Double canister 
b. Autoclavable 
c. Canister capacity of 0.8 kg or more. 
d. It should be possible to bypass the canister if 
removed 
during 
clinical 
cases 
to 
change 
sodalime. 
 
10 
APL valve assembly and Bag mount should be 
conveniently placed. 
11 
Independent port for open circuit. 
12 
Should be provided with one or more drawers. 
13 
Machine should have a good quality handle and castors 
to move the 
 
 
machine with locking system. 
14 
The ventilator of the machine should have the following 
features: - 
a. Should be electronically controlled. 
b. Should be suitable for both paediatric, adult and new 
born. 
c. It should have coloured screen.  
d. Volume and pressure control mode of ventilations. 
e. Electronic peep 
f. Both SIMV and pressure support mode. 
g. Tidal volume ranges from 20ml to 1200 ml or more 
h. respiratory rate from 4 to 80 or more 
i. I:E ratio 
j. Display : Respiratory rate, peak airway pressure and 
PEEP 
k. There should be no collection of water in the breathing 
system. 
15 
Should have independent paramagnetic oxygen sensor 
for FiO2 monitor and flow sensor for spirometry. 
16 
The work station should be capable of delivery of low 
and minimal flow anaesthesia even at 350 ml of total fresh gas to 
reduce patient consumption 
17 
Should be able to display 
a. Pressure Vs time 
b. Volume /Flow Vs time  
18 
Should have battery backup of at least 60 minutes 
19 
Demonstration of the product is must for all the firm. 
20 
Bidder must ensure regular supply of medical grade Soda 
lime with rate quoted separately. 
 
 
II. The Monitor should have the following: 
1 
A modular configurable patient monitor 
2 
Should have at least 17” or more TFT colour 
display with up to 12 waveforms at a time 


--- Page 15 ---
Tender for Flat panel C-arm with DSA 
Admn/Tender/26/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 15 
 
3 
Should be touch screen 
4 
Should be able to measure the following 
parameters: 
i. 3 and 5 lead ECG with electrocautery & 
defibrillator filter with ST Segment & arrhythmia 
detection with analysis, 
ii. Respiration, SpO2, temperature 
iii. NIBP, 2 IBP, ETCO2 
iv. Multi –Gas analysis with auto detection of all 
anaesthetic agents 
v. Integrated BIS/entropy Monitoring. 
vi. Upgradable to cardiac output (thermodilution) 
monitoring. 
vii. Integrated modular NMT monitor parameter 
display on the main monitor 
viii. Upgradable to modular EEG monitoring 
 
5 
Should be able to automatically detect and calculate 
MAC of all anaesthetic gases. 
6 
Should be able to calculate and display FiO2. 
7 
Intelligent cooling system to keeps the unit 
running quiet during use. 
8 
Separate indicator lights for technical and 
physiological alarms. 
9 
Maximum BEEP tone should be loud enough to 
be audible from atleast a distance of 12 feet 
10 
Should have graded audio and visual alarms for 
the following parameters: 
a. Blood pressure - High and Low 
b. SpO2 - High and Low 
c. Heart rate - High and Low 
d. Respiration - High and Low 
e. FiO2 - High and Low 
11 
Trends – Upto 48 Hours or more, trend analysis, 
upto 24 hours full disclosure. 
12 
Battery Back- up – Li-ion Battery of 1 hour or 
more. 
13 
Display of Anaesthesia ventilator data like wave 
forms for flow, pressure, agent and loops, and 
trends on patient monitors. 
14 
Ready to run Web based application like PACS, 
HIS, RIS, LIS, Cath lab Report, X-Ray as 
standard on the patient monitor (optional – price 
to be quoted separately) 
15 
The quoted model should be European CE or US 
FDA approved 
 
 
16 
System 
should 
have 
Anaesthesia 
Charting 
facility. (Optional, price to be quoted separately) 
17  
The machine should be supplied with the following 
accessories: 
a. ECG Cable – 2 nos 
b. Reusable SpO2 Sensors: 2 each for Adult, Pediatric 
& Neonatal. 


--- Page 16 ---
Tender for Flat panel C-arm with DSA 
Admn/Tender/26/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
c. NIBP Cuff: 2 each for Adult, Pediatric & Neonatal. 
d. IBP Transducers: Disposable 10 nos. 
e. IBP Cable: 2 nos 
f. BIS Electrode: 10 nos 
g. ETCO2 Sample Line: 10 nos 
h. Reusable autoclavable Breathing circuit: 2 nos each 
for Adult & pediatric 
 
III.  
All the components like anaesthesia ventilator, vaporiser, 
Anaesthesia charting and patient monitor should be from same 
manufacturer. 
IV 
Demonstration is must. 
10.  Essential Certification:  
The offered model (Main Equipment) must have a valid quality 
certificates – CE (Europe) and USA FDA, at the time of submission of 
tender. 


