--- Page 21 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Urology/318/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 21 
 
Specificationsof Extracorporeal Shockwave Lithotripter (ESWL) 
 
Integrated Extracorporeal Shock Wave Lithotripter (ESWL) for treatment of urinary stones in adult 
and children. The system should provide anaesthesia-free treatment and should have integrated X-ray 
and ultrasound localization facilities. The system should be integrated and stationary. The system 
should comprise the following:   
1. Shock wave system   
2. Stone localization system   
3. Treatment table & accessories   
4. Patient monitor   
5. Fully automated control panel on bedside and at a remote location behind a lead screen 
 
1.     Shock Wave System  
1. Latest generation Electromagnetic Shock Wave Emitter Technology  
2. Membrane based dry coupling  
3. Shock Wave Head should have motorized movements to ensure easy targeting   without the need to 
change patient's position or rotating the table for left or right side   stones.  
4. Depth of penetration should be 165mm or more.  
5. Adjustable frequency of shock-waves: a. Minimum 60 per min or lower b. Maximum of 120 per 
min or higher  
6. ECG gated triggering should be possible  
7. Shock wave energy (E12 at 12mm): a. Minimum of 30mJ or lower b. Maximum of 100 mJ or higher  
8. Shock wave head should have facility for at least 12 variable energy levels in 12 or more steps for 
facilitating low energy treatments for paediatric patients and high energy treatments for hard stones  
9.   Largest dimension of the focus should be 8 cm or higher  
10. Movements of treatment table, X-ray system and the shockwave head should be motorized to 
ensure easy and accurate stone targeting. All functions should be controllable with remote control 
touch button keypad. One set of controls must be available at the patient side and one remote set (with 
all functions) is to be located away from the main machine behind a lead screen, at least 3 meters away 
from the patient.               
 
2. 
Stone Localization system:Integrated, isocentric fluoroscopy and ultrasonography: 
 
A: C-Arm fluoroscopy and imaging system 
1. The C-arm, shock-head and patient table must be integrated. There must be no need to routinely 
check alignment between these systems by the end-user.  
2. The equipment must have C-arm based auto-positioning capability for accurate stone localization 
after marking of stone location on the fluoroscopy image in two planes.  
3. High frequency microprocessor controlled generator for fluoroscopy.  
4. Provision for continuous, pulse and single pulse fluoroscopy.  
5. Rotating/fixed anode X-ray tube.  
6. Minimum 40KW X-ray capability to allow all endourological interventions.  
7. Image intensifier should be of 12 inch or greater diameter.  
8. All movements of C-arm fluoroscope should be motorized and isocentric. 


--- Page 22 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Urology/318/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 22 
 
9. Two LCD-TFT at least 17 inches, flat screen medical grade monitors for image display.  
10. Image storage: 2000 or more in addition to last image hold.  
11. Simultaneous imaging with X-Ray and Ultrasound system should be possible.  
12. Compatible with HIS 7 interface / DICOM 3.0 ready with print, save and modality work list for 
connecting to PACS.  
13. Patient data management software enabling entering of patient data, storage and retrieval with 
print-out of treatment details and image of stone location. 
 
B; Ultrasound localization system  
1. Localization should be done through an articulating arm ultrasound or in-line ultrasound, iso-centric 
to the shock wave source for best image quality.  
2. 3.5/4 MHz transducer on articulated support arm for easy movements and positioning,  
3. Minimum of 12 inch display monitor  
4. Colour Doppler imaging should be available  
5. Simultaneous real time localization and treatment monitoring with X-ray  
6. High resolution Black and white Thermal printer with 20 Rolls to be supplied  
 
3. Treatment Table & Accessories 
 
1. Ergonomicatly designed patient table usable for both for ESWL and endourological            
procedures by allowing full patient access.  
2. Table should have fully motorized movements  
3. Table should be of standard dimension and support patient weighing up to 200 Kg or more.  
4. Standard extensions/accessories (manufactured bythe principal table manufacturer and not locally 
sourced) for comfortable supine and lithotomy positioning of adult and children including at least: 1. 
Arm supports: 2 Nos.  2. Gel pads: 4 Nos.  3. Hydraulic leg stirrups with ankle support: 2 Nos.    4. 
Head extension: 1 Nos.    5. Foot extension: 1 Nos. 5. Lead aprons (minimum 0.5mm thickness lead, 
light weight with wrap around flaps and neck collars (06 Nos.) of approved quality should be provided.  
 
4. Patient monitor: 
 
1. Latest generation multi-parameter patient monitor with ECG, Pulse, NIBP, Pulse oximeter and 
temperature  
 
5. Remote control panel: 
 
1. All functions should be controllable with remote control touch button keypad. One set    of controls 
must be available at the patient side and one remote set (with all    functions) is to be located away 
from the main machine behind a lead screen, at least   3 meters away from the patient. The remote 
control centre must have all monitors    that provide C-arm image and lithotripsy parameters.  
 
6. Patient Information Management System:  
 


--- Page 23 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Urology/318/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 23 
 
1. Patient data management software enabling entering of patient data, storage and retrieval with print-
out of treatment details and image of stone location  
2. User defined templates for diagnosis and therapy, indication of calculi on image for     easy 
documentation, patient history record and acquisition of therapy data, data     analysis and statistics  
3. Live X-Ray Image Acquisition/Processing with last image Hold, window and level     control. 
Horizontal reverse, vertical reverse, Grey level invert 
4. System Backup: CD-R or DVD-R or USB  
5. Patient data / image archive: CD-R or DVD-R or -RW or USB  
 
7.  Other Terms& Conditions:  
 
1. Suitable indigenous UPS with 30 minutes’ battery backup for complete load of the ESWL machine 
as per actual requirement.  
2. The system should be upgradable and all spare parts should be available for next 10 years after 
commissioning  
3. The whole equipment quoted must conform to US-FDA/ISO standards for human use with necessary 
certificate enclosed. C-Arm fluoroscopy must conform to international safety standards against 
radiation hazards. All equipment must be manufactured by the same company or else each component 
must meet the US-FDA/ISO standards.  
4. Original catalogue and detailed scientific literature of the quoted model to be enclosed.  
5. List of users of the quoted model in India to be mentioned.  
6. On-site training to departmental faculty and staff for optimum usage till satisfaction. 
7. A minimum of 95 uptime guarantee must be provided. 
8. Price listing of all spares and accessories including shock wave emitter and head should be submitted 
along with rate contract for 10 years   
 
TURNKEY WORK AND SCOPE 
 The Supplier should inspect the proposed site offered by the Consignee Institute in which the 
ESWL system has to be installed and they are required to submit the plan for the complete 
ESWL Centre on a turnkey basis. The scope of work includes complete Civil work, Electrical, 
plumbing, Furnishing, Air-conditioning and Fire fighting for the construction of ESWL 
Centre.   
 While preparing the plan, the following aspects have to be addressed.  
 Care should be taken to provide easy negotiation of the patient stretchers/ trolleys through 
corridors and doors.  
 Radiation shielding for doors, walls, windows etc.  
 Furniture like desk, chairs, shelves etc 
 
CIVIL WORK  
 Civil construction work including construction of brick wall if any, plastering, flooring as per 
the approved plan and equipment layout plan for examination room console cum reporting 
room and reception area.  
 Concrete bed at ESWL equipment area,  
 Platform for unloading and shifting the ESWL should be provided if necessary.  


--- Page 24 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Urology/318/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 24 
 
 Cable tray, trench & channel – necessary trenches, cable tray and channels at required location 
would be provided.   
 All the construction work to be done as per the final plan approved by the Consignee. 
 
FLOORING  
 600 x 600 mm vitrified tiles with 100mm tile skirting to match in console room, lobby and 
patient preparation areas, Radiologist room etc.  
 50 mm thick cement concrete flooring with Vinyl flooring in ESWL equipment / UPS room. 
 
PAINTING  
 Two coats Plastic Emulsion Paint over 2 coats of wall putty including primer in patient 
preparation area, patient waiting area, console room, ESWL room & Equipment room etc. 
 
FALSE CEILING  
 Acoustical tile for ceiling with light weight insulating material of high quality supported on 
grid or finished seamless with support above ceiling. Finished with white paint or powder 
coated with white paint, if metallic. Ceiling height to suit the equipment mount and clearances. 
 
PLUMBING WORK  
 All water pipes and fittings shall be of high density polythene of approved and standard make.  
 The gratings shall be brass chrome plated. All plumbing accessories should be of standard 
make.   
 
ELECTRICAL WORK  
 The supplier shall be required to specify the total load requirements for the ESWLcentre 
including the load of air conditioning, room lighting and for the accessories if any.   
 The supply line will be provided by the Institute up to one point within the ESWLcentre . The 
distribution panel shall be provided by the vendor. Few lights in each room shall be connected 
to the UPS to provide emergency lighting.  
 The electrical work shall include the following: 
 Wiring – All interior electrical wiring- with main distribution panel board, necessary MCBs, 
DB, joint box, switch box etc. the wires shall be of copper of different capacity as per the load 
and should be renowned make as listed below.  
 Switches light and power points should be of modular type and of standard make as listed 
below.  
 General lights – LED light fitting with 500 Lux Illumination 
 
AIR CONDITIONING:  
 Package air conditioners units and split AC units may be used according to room requirement 
and suitability. Humidity control should be effective to eliminate moisture condensation on 
equipment surface. The Air conditioning should be designed with standby provision to 
function 24 hours a day.   
 The outdoor units of AC should have grill coverings to prevent theft and damage.  


--- Page 25 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Urology/318/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 25 
 
 Ventilation is required in toilet. 
 
ENVIRONMENT SPECIFICATIONS:   
 Relative Humidity range: To be maintained between 60% and 80% in all areas except 
equipment room which shall be as per requirement of the equipment.  
 Temperature ranges: 22 ± 2° C in all areas except equipment room which shall be as per 
requirement of the equipment.  
 Air conditioning load: The heat load calculations and maintaining the desired temperature and 
humidity shall be the responsibility of the bidder. 
 
FURNITURE:  
 Revolving chairs height adjustable, medium-back with hand-rest in the Control room, 
Radiologist room and viewing area. – 7 NO.S 
 Cupboard with laminate door shutters for storage of spare parts and accessories and records 
as per requirement. – 4 NO.S (two each in examination room and reception) 
 Drug trolleys for patient preparation area. – 1 No.  
 Tables for Workstation - 1 NO.  
 Changing rooms should have change lockers and dressing table.  
 Dustbins – 2 No’s.   
 Stainless steel benches of 1 x 3 configuration for waiting area – 5 No.  
 Any other essential furniture item as per requirement.  
 All furniture items should be of standard make as mentioned in the table below. 
 
MISCELLANEOUS:   
 LED X-ray Film viewer with adjustable brightness; capable of holding 3 films of 14”x17” 
size. – 3 no.s 
 Cabling of Network (LAN) connectivity for camera system, console system, workstation and 
computers etc.  
 Fire extinguisher Dry CO2 type as required for the building safety. 
 Dry Chemistry Camera. Should have 500 DPI and should print at least 3 sizes of films:  8x10, 
14x17, 10x12 inches. 200 films of each size to be supplied.  
 Branded desktop PC with latest operating system and system configuration along with Laser 
jet printer for reporting room. 
 
 
 
 


