--- Page 10 ---
   
Supply, Installation and Commissioning of Equipment required in Obstetrics & Gynecology Department 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty. 
1. 
IUI Equipments: 
 
 
a 
Trinocular 
Research   
Microscope 
a) High quality research microscope 
b) Mechanical Tube Length 160 mm. 
c) Negative phase contrast condenser 
d) objectives 10X, 20X, 40X & 100X, with anti fungal treatment. 
e) 45o inclined with 3600 Rotatable Trinocular head. 
f) Camera port ready.(can be connected with a PC / monitor) 
g) Camera should be of high resolution CCD camera 
h) Co- axial built in Mechanical stage 125 x 150 mm with fine vernier 
graduation, designed with convenient coaxial adjustment on ball 
bearing guide ways for smooth slide manipulation through 50 x 70 
mm. 
i) Dust proof Quadruple ball bearing revolving nose piece with positive 
click stops. Co-axial course & fine focusing adjustment knobs. Fine 
motion graduated to .002mm. Sub stage abbe type N.A. 1.25 
condenser focusable with rack & pinion, continuously variable iris 
diaphragm with built in swing out filter holder. Heavy rectangular 
sturdy base, with built in illumination 6V – 20W 
halogen lamp/LED. With dust proof cover packed in Styrofoam 
packing. 
j) TFT monitor  : should be of 17” monitor 
k) Should be USFDA or European CE approved product. 
1 
b 
Centrifuge 
Machine 
a) Maximum speed of 4000 rpm or more 
b) It has swing out head with 8X15 ml tubes with digital 
c) speedometer and timer 
d) Should be USFDA or European CE approved product. 
1 
c 
Laminar 
Air Flow 
a) 99.97% filtration efficiency 
b) Class 100 environment, fully operated inn plc with touch TFT/Button 
operated LCD/LED display. 
c) Table top stainless steel  
d) Main frame crca power coated mild steel or wooden frame cover with 
industrial laminated sheet  
e) Washable prefilter 0.5 micron and high technology HEPA filter  
f) 4feet X 2 feet X 2 feet with S.S. top , horizontal/ vertical, 0.33 
microns 
g) ULPA filters/ HEPA filters, UV LIGHT  
h) Should be USFDA or European CE approved product. 
1 
2 
Operative Laparoscopic Set 
c 
Ultrasonic 
Cutting 
Device 
& 
Vessel 
Sealing 
System 
 
 Technical Specification of Generator for Ultrasonic Cutting and 
Coagulation and advanced RF Energy device for Open and 
Laparoscopic Surgery 
 System should have a universal connector to connect Ultrasonic 
energy and Advanced RF energy instruments. 
 System should have automatic instrument recognition. 
 System should be European CE or US FDA approved. 
 System should have a touch screen display for fast and setup, 
operation and onscreen diagnostics. 
 System should have a high-resolution display with wide viewing 
angles. 
 System should have the ability for software updates via USB/ 
memory stick/LAN/ HDMI Ports 
1 


--- Page 11 ---
   
Supply, Installation and Commissioning of Equipment required in Obstetrics & Gynecology Department 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 System should be a generator that provides Ultrasonic energy and 
Advanced RF energy technology for soft tissue dessication and seal 
vessel upto 7 mm 
 System should have a potential equalization terminal for 
compatibility with other medical systems requiring such connections 
 System should conform to the following international standards EN 
(IEC) 60601-1, EN(IEC) 60601-1-2, EN (IEC) 60601-2-2, EN (IEC) 
60601-1-8 
 System should provide Class 1 protection against electric shock 
 System should have a single footswitch for operating ultrasonic 
energy or advanced RF energy instruments 
 System should have the ability to select hand switch or footswitch 
activation or both for Ultrasonic and advanced RF energy 
instruments and the ability to change selection during use 
 System should have English language as default 
 System should not have minimal lateral thermal spread more than 1 
mm. 
 System should not have an auto switch off mechanism. 
 System should have standby mode to ensure safety. 
 System should come equipped with system diagnostics and 
troubleshooting guide to pin point any problems in the systems. 
 System should have onscreen warning display system for generator 
overheating, generator software upgrade, hand piece errors and 
instrument errors 
 System should be able to power ultrasonic energy instruments with 
45 – 57 KHz frequency. 
 The hand piece for the system should come with an inbuilt 
transducer. 
 System should be compatible for open surgery and for laparoscopic 
surgery. 
 System should have various power settings levels with power level 
display for ultrasonic energy instruments. 
 System should be able to power energy instruments with 
microprocessor controlled bipolar electrosurgical radiofrequency 
technology with a quasi-sinusoidal forced impedance output. 
 System should be equipped with smart advanced RF energy 
technology to measure the tissue impedance and control the power 
delivery. 
 System should be equipped to simultaneously seal and transect 
vessels up to and including 5mm, large tissue pedicles and vascular 
bundles. 
 System should be equipped with advanced RF energy technology 
that provides temperature controlled energy delivery. 
 System should have Advanced RF Energy hand instruments with a 
unique electrode configuration to minimize the lateral thermal 
spread. 
 System should have Advanced RF Energy hand instruments with 
technology to deliver high compression uniformly across seal area. 
 System should have Advanced RF Energy hand instruments that 
provide tissue /vessel seal strength to withstand bursting pressure of 
minimum 5 times the systolic pressure. 
 All hand probes for open and lap procedures should be able to 
simultaneously cut and coagulate tissues. 
 System should be able to power advanced RF energy hand 


--- Page 12 ---
   
Supply, Installation and Commissioning of Equipment required in Obstetrics & Gynecology Department 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
instruments of 5mm shaft diameter for both open & laparoscopic 
procedures with round tip (5mm tip width) in the following shaft 
lengths (13 mm – 48 mm) and should be both hand & foot activated. 
 Systems should be able to power ultrasonic energy hand instruments 
of 5mm shaft diameter for both open & laparoscopic procedures 
with the following specifications 
 System should be USFDA and European CE approved. 
 Open Surgery Instruments: 
2. 17cm – 20 cm long shaft, curved/ straight tip for precise 
dissection, seals 5 mm vessels or more, triggers support multiple 
hand positions. 
 4. Curved Blade having telescoping shaft (10cm-14cm) with 
integrated hand activation control buttons. 
 6. 18cm shaft hand activated straight coagulating shears capable of 
sealing blood vessel upto 5mm. 
 Laparoscopic Surgery Instruments: 
1. 5mm Lap Hand or Foot Activated Curved/ straight Coagulating 
instruments capable of sealing blood vessels upto 5mm in diameter, 
35- 36 shaft length, ergonomic handle. 
 System should comprise of the following 
 Hardware: 
 1 Generator 
 2 Footswitch & Cable 
 Accessories: 
 1 Handpiece (Transducer) 
 2 Handpiece 
 3 Generator Cart 
3 
COMPACT OFFICE HYSTEROSCOPY SET 
 
 
a 
OFFICE HYSTEROSCOPE TELESCOPE WITH INTEGRATED INFLOW 
CHANNEL: 
The Integrated Examination Hysteroscope should be a  having 25-30° telescope 
with lens size 2.9-3.0 mm , Size with inbuilt  irrigation channel  , length between 
22- 26 cm, with irrigation adaptor, autoclavable, fiber optic light transmission 
incorporated. The telescope should have   inbuilt inflow channel and does not 
require any assembling in its single flow version. 
1 
 
b 
DIAGNOSTIC OFFICE HYSTEROSCOPE SHEATH: 
Hysteroscope sheath for diagnostic continuous irrigation should be of  size 3.6-
3.8mm, length 18-20 cm, with suction adaptor, for use with 2.9-3.0mm 
hysteroscope telescope with integrated inflow channel and the sheath should be 
usable in active and passive positions. 
1 
 
c 
CONTROLLED IRRIGATION UNIT FOR HYSTEROSCOPY 
IRRIGATION: 
CONTROLLED 
IRRIGATION 
UNIT 
FOR 
OPERATING 
HYSTEROSCOPE 
TO 
MAINTAIN 
INTRAUTERINE 
CAVITY 
PRESSURE 
AS 
DESIRABLE 
BY 
SURGEON. 
PRESSURE 
OF 
IRRIGATION TO BE MAINTAINED BETWEEN:   
(PRESSURE 0-200mmHg). FLOW TO BE MAITAINED BETWEEN:  (& 
Flow between 0-500ml/L.)   
AUTOMATIC DOME DETECTION FACILITY. 
Should be supplied along with following accessories: 
 HYSTEROSCOPE reusable Tubing Set, 2 Nos. 
Reusable Pressure dome 2 Nos. 
Suction bottle 5.0L 2 Nos. 
Suction bottle cap with stand 
Suction tubing set reusable 2 Nos. 
1 
 
d  
COMPACT COMBINED UNIT FOR CAMERA, LIGHT SOURCE , 
1 


--- Page 13 ---
   
Supply, Installation and Commissioning of Equipment required in Obstetrics & Gynecology Department 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
1. The Instruments quoted should be of high quality and standard.  
2. The Instruments should have European CE or USFDA certification.  
3. Copy of the European CE certificate or USFDA certificate should be enclosed.  
4. The Instruments must be ISO certified ISO 7153 and copy should be enclosed.  
5. The Instruments should preferably have a certificate of Primary Passivation Process. 
 
Administrative Officer  
AIIMS, Jodhpur 
MONITOR AND USB RECORDING 
COMPACT ENDOVISION CAMERA SYSTEM 
The Camera system should be compact and portable suitable for a variety of 
endoscopic applications from physician’s offices to operating room.   
 
The all-in-one unit should consist of everything needed for Endoscopic 
imaging, Video recording, and viewing of saved Videos, the monitor, 
camera, and light source. It should have camera head with optical zoom 
facility with universal Telescope coupler. It should have horizontal 
resolution of more than 450 Lines. 
 
Should have two to six USB ports and SD Card slot  for documentation 
purpose. 
DISPLAY: should be Crystal clear  
- 
Minimum 15" LCD display  
- 
Image rotation   
- 
DVI video output for brilliant transmission quality 
 
Easy and reliable control - Should have keyboard with hot keys for rapid and 
direct manipulation - Arrow buttons for intuitive control. 
 
Natural illumination - Metal halide Hi-Lux 50 Watt/ 150 Watt LED high-
performance  light source  - Color temperature similar to daylight   - Should 
have Long lamp life  
 
e 
VIDEO MOBILE TROLLEY SUITABLE FOR OFFICE 
HYSTEROSCOPE EQUIPMENT. 
Video trolley to be supplied for mounting equipments having minimum four 
shelf in addition to with one drawer, with antistatic wheel casters, front 
lockable, high grade of electrical insulation and earth protection. 5 Ampere 
socket, 10Nos, inbuilt with trolley to connect all electronic devices. IV stand 
should be provided. Potential equalization connection to be provided at least 
10 points. Powder coated good quality rust free and should be able to take 
load minimum up to 70 Kg. Should be medical grade. 
1 
 
f 
ADVANCE AUDIO VIDEO RECORDING AND DATA 
DOCUMENTATION 
The Full High-Definition Documentation System (certified to be used in OT) 
designed specifically for recording, managing, and archiving surgical images 
and video in native full HD resolution. The captured full high-definition, 
images & videos can be accessed from the hard drive for printing or saving 
onto multiple forms of external media which includes CD-DVD, USB Flash 
Drive (2.0 & 3.0) & Hospital network through FTP.   
System should have 2 DVI inputs for dual video recording.   
The hardware of computer system should be latest technology. It should have 
built in touch screen. 
ALL ITEM SHOULD BE EUROPEAN CE or USFDA CERTIFIED 
PRODUCT. 4 
1 


