--- Page 15 ---
 
AIIMS BATHINDA                                                                                                                                                                  Page 15 
 
 
 
                      
 
                  List of Items for which rate contract is sought with specification and the make wherever applicable 
 
 
SR.NO 
ITEMS 
NAME  
                                            SPECIFICATION 
Qty 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Synchronized 
Multiple 
Visualizer 
System 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
1. System should have high resolution full Male and full Female 
segmented real human tissue content with full annotations developed by 
OEM. 
  
2. System should have at least 4 full body cadavers; two Males and two 
Females;1 Caucasian pair and 1 Asian pair. With real human tissue data 
3. System should have 20 or more photorealistic regional sections with 
real human tissue data 
4. Real tissue visualization system should have 31-week fetus, which 
should simulate uteroplacental circulation and explicitly show vascular 
and nervous system of the fetus and other anatomical features of the fetus 
5.The system should have the capability for window dissection in any 
shape. 
6.The system should have the capability for layer-by-layer removal of 
structures 
7. The system should have the capability to segment the cadaver in any 
plane and at any angle 
8. System should be able to display male and female body side by side 
simultaneously. 
9. System should have feature to visualize histology in various stains and 
resolutions related with the gross anatomy structure side by side 
simultaneously 
10. System should have feature to compare up to 4 histology slides side by 
side. 
11. System should have the feature to review CT/ MRI cases with gross 
anatomy on system side by side simultaneously. 
12. The system should come with FDA approved software with 
capabilities to convert CT / MRI data offline into 3D interactive data in 
colour that can be zoomed in and out and can also be segmented in any 
plane and at any angle 
13. The 3D volume rendered data should have the ability to be viewed in 
Ultra High-Quality Mode, Opaque Hard Tissues, Transparent Soft Tissues, 
Greyscale, X-Ray, Transparent Hard Tissue modes 
14. System should have 50 or more photo-realistic prosections images 
from various regions of human anatomy with normal and pathologic tissue 
15. Readymade and customized quizzes should be available in system with 
possibility to generate multiple student score automatically during 
classroom test. 
16.System should have more than 30 animal cadaver data for comparative 
study with human body 
17. System should have accurate cadaver heart with detailed cardiac nerve 
innervation 
18.System should have capability to simulate heart valve motion and 
vascular connectivity 
19. System should have detailed distribution of sensory and motor nerves 
20.System should have feature to simulate endoscopic procedures in gross 
anatomy major body systems 
21. System should have more than 10 different pathways for visualization 
of anatomy and physiologic pathways 
22. System should have at least 02 Video output for external projection 
23. Real tissue visualization system should be provided with projection 
screens for total display size up to 110 inch  
24. System display should have multi touch point capability with a single 
touch screen of 81" or better size such that the formfactor is similar to 
actual dissection table. 
01 


--- Page 16 ---
 
AIIMS BATHINDA                                                                                                                                                                  Page 16 
 
 
 
25. System should be provided with 4 high-definition touch screens of 
minimum size 65 inches to view accurate 3D anatomy simultaneously 
with multi touch interactivity. 
26. At least four synchronized 65” touch vertical interactive side by side 
display with life sized display system for anatomy education should be 
provided. 
27. System software should be able to display skeletal, muscular, 
cardiovascular and nervous system side by side on different screens with 
single selection. 
 
28. System should have synchronized rotation feature on all screens with 
single touch screen 
 
29. System should be provided with additional 65inch or better size 
interactive display including curriculum resources  
30. System should be provided with 25 iPads with a real tissue digital 
Cadaver with features like 2300 segmented and annotated structures, 
major anatomical systems including Cardiovascular, Nervous, Skeletal, 
Endocrine, Reproductive and Skin, exploring real human anatomy through 
rotating and zooming. Removing, adding, and isolating anatomical 
systems and structures. Drawing and erasing with a touchscreen pen with 
curriculum resources 
31. Online UPS should be provided with the system. 
 
32. Single OEM software should have Gross Anatomy, CT/MRI 
Communication System, Offline CT/MRI 3D Conversion, Histology and 
Prosection feature. 
33. System should have collection of Histology slides showing various 
physiological and pathological examples with the use of various 
microscopic and staining techniques 
34. System should have photo-realistic prosections images from various 
regions of human anatomy and case examples for normal and pathological 
tissue 
35. Operating Temperature of the system should be within range 0 to 40 
degree Celsius or better 
36. Operating Humidity range should be 10 to 60% or better 
37. Bidder should have at least 01 installation of the offered model in a 
Government Institution. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


