--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Neuro-Biofeedback   
                                                                            Admn/Tender/24-2/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
NEURO-
BIOFEEDBACK 
It should have minimum 6 channels to maximum 32 channels like 
EEG, EMG, EKG/ECG, Pulse/Heart Rate, Respiration, Temperature, 
Skin Conduction, HRV Analysis & Neurofeedback should have 
SMR Activity, Delta, Theta, Alpha, SMR, Mid-range Beta, High 
Beta frequency bands, 3D brain maps. 
- 
It should have external and internal sensors. 
- 
High sensitivity USB interface connection with computer. 
- 
All channels can be used with any combination of sensors 
- 
The reading of subject's physiological data should be captured 
through user friendly, light weight sensor modules and transmitted to 
the PC using state-of-art technology. 
- 
A variety musical variation/ pre-defined programs to modify the 
levels of relaxation. 
Audio Visual feedback 
- 
Shall have a range of (>10) picture animations, videos 
- 
Modular system to enable use of parameters of choice at a 
particulars time. 
- 
Simultaneously display of readings — the system should be able to 
give differential readings from one person for different parameters at 
same time. 
- 
Temperature module: The module shall measures skin temperature. 
It shall be possible to attach temperature sensor used for measuring 
temperature to hand or forehead with help of a headband or Velcro 
strap. 
- 
Pulse module: The module shall measures pulse amplitude and 
frequency. It shall be possible to attach pulse sensor to hand or 
forehand with help of a headband or Velcro strap. 
- 
GSR module: The module shall measures skin conductance. It shall 
be possible to attach Velcro strap to palm or finger/s. 
- 
Respiration module: The module shall measures breathing pattern. It 
shall be possible to fasten the breathing belt around thorax or 
abdomen. 
- 
EMG Module: The EMG signals detected with silver electrodes 
(surface electrode) and amplified by a low noise pre- amplifier shall 
be projected on monitor and available for recording. 
-EEG Feedback: It shall be recorded by at least 6 channels. 
Certification 
1.The machine shall conform to the ISO & CE conditions 
2.It shall also have electrical safety standard certificate 
Computer & printer specifications 
1. Desktop or Laptop (preferable) with Intel Core-i3 processor, 2.5 
GHz or above. Memory- 
4-8 GB DDR 2 RAM or higher, Hard 
Drive — 500 GB 
or higher Optical Drive — 16 x DVD(RW) and 
headphone 
2. Operating System: Windows 8 and above 
Should have separate 15 inch TFT monitor for animation picture and 
video animation games 
Accessories 
2 set of GSR Electrodes, 2 set of EMG Electrodes, 2 nos. of pulse 
Transducer, 2 nos. of Temperature Transducer, 50 nos. of EEG 
gold plated electrodes, conduction gel/paste, Earthing Wire & 
User's Manual. 
01 


