--- Page 11 ---
Tender for CPAPBipap Machine                                                                                       Admn/Tender/149/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
CPAPBipap 
Machine 
1. Usable for both adults and pediatric patients above 5kg body weight 
2. Should have continuous mode of operation. 
3. Should have multiple therapy modes i.e. CPAP, AUTOSET,BILEVEL, 
PAC (PRESSURE ASSIST CONTROL), SPONTANEOUS, S/T 
(SPONTANEOUS/TIMED), VAP (VOLUME ASSURED PRESSURE 
SUPPORT), Auto E-PAP etc 
4. Should have battery back up (upto 4 hrs.) 
5. Must be electromagnetically compatible. 
6. Pressure output should be 30 cmH2O or higher 
7. Should be able to measure and display parameters accurately(i.e. RR, 
Exhaled tidal volume/exhaled minute ventilation, air leak rate etc.) 
8. Should be supplied with Integrated Humidifier 
9. Should have Alarm system both visual and audible of different priorities 
10. Colored LED display screen displaying all the set parameters lime 
RR,EPAP,IPAP<Exhaled VT, Leak, mode of ventilation etc.  
11. Ramp availability required. 
12. Accessories to be supplied with each unit:  
(1.) Power cord,  
(2.) silicon Reusable (Autoclavable) Two small size Full face masks, 
(3.) silicon Reusable (Autoclavable) Three medium size Full face 
masks,  
(4.) silicon Reusable (Autoclavable) Two large size Full face mask and  
(5.) silicon Reusable (Autoclavable) Three medium size nasal masks. 
(6.) One Wheel based stand (by same manufacturer will be 
preferred over other branded)  
       Cover for the Machine 
13. Two Adult and Two Padeatric Breathing circuit, Re-usable should be 
supplied with. . The Breathing tubes should be preferably heating tubes. 
14. Automatic leak detection and compensation for atleast 30 Litres.  
15. Supplied with a set of mains leads and carry bag. The filter should be 
washable and reusable  
16. Should have Spo2 Module with one adult and one pediatric probe 
and data Module. 
17. Should have provision of data storage and transfer. 
18. Weight of the machine should be less than 5 kgs (light weight preferred) 
and should be user friendly 
19. Operating voltage 220-240 v, 50 HZ. 
20. In case of malfunction/breakdown, the company should provide 
temporary back-up support within 48 hrs of registering the complaint 
till the time machine is repaired and returned. 
21. The company should give the certificate that the model quoted is the 
latest and not obsolete; and spares will be easily available for next 5-7 
years.  
22. Must give rate of Accessories like breathing circuits and masks of all 
sizes (face masks and nasal masks) , which should be applicable for two 
years. 
23. In the technical bid the product should be quoted with a set of asked 
accessories.  The price bid must clearly state the accessories included.  
The price of optional accessories should be quoted separately. 
24. The product or its earlier model should have been marketed in the 
national or international market for at least 5 years. 
25. If the equipment is software based, and the new software is introduced 
within five years the up gradation will be provided free of cost 
06 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for CPAPBipap Machine                                                                                       Admn/Tender/149/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26. Demonstration: The Department may ask for demonstration of actual 
quoted product or even for trial use. 
27. Training: The necessary training of the personnel for the use of the 
equipment will be provided by the company/vendor.  The vendor must 
mention the type of training i.e. on site or abroad and number of 
persons. 
28. Compliance statement.  The vendor must provide, in tabular form a 
comparative chart of the required technical specification and technical 
specification of the quoted product.  The vendor must give the relevant 
page number and paragraph number, in their literature regarding that 
technical information in the technical bid.  Merely stating “complies” or 
“meets requirement” will lead to assumption that the quoted product 
does not have the required feature. 
Should be US FDA & European CE approved 


