--- Page 21 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Patho/18/26/OT/B 
   
Page 21 of 23 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical Specification for Thalassaemia and Hemoglobinopathy Testing/ 
Screening System 
1. Should be fully automated HPLC system, dedicated to Thalassaemia and Hemoglobinopathy testing and 
screening. 
2. The system should be able to screen and quantitate hemoglobins Hb A2, Hb A and Hb F and detect commonly 
occurring abnormal hemoglobins like Hb S, Hb D, Hb E, Hb C, Hb Q- India, Hb D-Iran and other rare abnormal 
hemoglobins. 
3. The system should have the provision of presumptive identification of Hb Barts and Hb H and various alpha 
chain variants like Hb J Meerut, etc 
4. The company should have broad installation base with at-least 5 years of presence in India and should be 
able to provide the relevant product, reagent and service support. The company should have at least 10 
installations in at least 5 NABL accredited government labs where the system is being used for Thalassemia 
screening. List of the labs should be provided. 
5. The system should have spinning of vacutainer before aspiration to avoid improper sampling. 
6. The system should have automatic barcode positioning facility. 
7. The system should be quoted with a complete ready to use reagent kit/all reagents required to run the tests 
including dilution in kit form rather than as individual items in order to avoid lot to lot variation and ease to 
calculate cost per test. 
8. Levels of buffers should be visible during the run. 
9. The system should have at least 200 chromatograms of fully classified abnormal hemoglobins and 
thalassemias (molecular analysis proven) with at least 5 publications. 
10. The system should have built in QC management system capable of storing the quality control data and 
printing the standard deviation and coefficient of variation values. 
11. The company should provide normal and abnormal controls for Hb A2, Hb F and Hb S and provide External 
Quality Assurance Scheme (EQAS) to help compare results with similar users worldwide. 
12. The system should have dedicated computer and software, which enables the system for bidirectional 
interfacing. Moreover the software should have customized reporting format, giving info on the subtype and 
quantity of hemoglobin detected. Also the software should enable result storage of minimum 5000 
chromatograms. 
13. The system should be capable of primary tube sampling. 
14. The system should have facility of STAT sampling & continuous sample feeding. 
15. The system should be capable to track positive samples. 
16. The system should have online chromatogram library available to help investigate abnormal haemoglobins. 
17. The system should accept different types of sample tubes. 
18. It should have a built in column thermostat for reproducibility of results. 
19. The system should be capable of processing at least 100 samples at a time. 
20. The system should have alarms for overflow of waste tank. 
21. The reagent containers should have a capacity of more than 1.0 litres so that the user does not need to 
change buffers regularly. 
22. The HPLC system should have a dual piston pump so that each elution buffer has a different pump and the 
buffers work efficiently. 
23. The system should have capacity of real-time, bi-directional interfacing with laboratory information system. 
24. Should have European CE or US FDA certification or BIS approved. 
25. The calibration, IQ, OQ and PQ of the instrument should be performed at the time of installation and 
certificates should be provided. 
26. To be supplied with branded all-in-one computer system with at least Core i7 processor, 8GB RAM, 1TB 
HDD, DVD R/R, 21” or better LED Monitor, Genuine Windows 10 or more, A4 size laser multifunctional 
colour duplex printer and appropriate bar code reader. 
27. Appropriate anti-vibration table with granite top of standard make should be provided to accommodate the 
instrument, computer system and accessories.  
28. UPS backup adequate for the duration of one cycle of processing should be provided. 
29. Start-up kit for at least 200 tests should be provided free of cost. 
30. Document supporting track record and satisfactory performance from institutes of national importance 
(minimum one) should be provided. 
31. Support for induction and follow up training of technical staff, on-site standardization and troubleshooting of 
procedures/ tests to be provided by the company. 
32. Five (5) years warranty and Five (5) years CMC should be provided. 


