--- Page 45 ---
                                                                  
                                                               
                                                           Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/PATHO/18/01/GTE 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – VII  
Specification for Image Analysis Tools & Automated Cell 
Viability Analyzer 
General specifications and terms 
1. 
The system should be a modular/integrated system for reporting WHO parameters 
including 
sperm 
count, 
sperm 
motility, 
vitality, 
viability, 
sperm 
morphological 
measurements, biochemical measurements, DNA fragmentation. 
2. 
The system should offer high-end performance all the while maintaining its ease of use. The 
manufacturer should offer all the reagent kits & consumables necessary for the tests. 
3. 
There should be facility to calculate mean value of different forms of sperm velocity. 
4. 
System should report all the WHO parameters by automatic mode within  10 minutes. 
5. 
The system should show adherence to latest WHO based standard classification norms with 
molecular level testing of DNA fragmentation with inner core diameter & outer core 
thickness with ratio. 
6. 
The system should have facility of integration with patient database for complete reporting 
and data for patient registration, samples collection, and slide preparation. This must be 
supported by individual barcode. 
7. 
Facility of storage of image, videos or sequences for archiving or future verification is a must 
for every patient analysis. 
8. 
Should have customizable reporting via user defined report templates. 
9. 
Automated system should report Sperm Conc., agglutination, Total motility, Prog. Motility, 
Non Prog. Motility, Immotile, Sperm Normal forms, MSC, PMSC, Functional Sperm. 
10. 
Analysis of multiple fields / multiple species should be available. 
11. 
Macros for different sperm types/ sample conditions should be available. 
12. 
Facility for determination of % Total motility, % Progressive motility, % Non Progressive 
motility, % Norm morphology, Sperm count, Motile sperm concentration, Progressive motile 
concentration, Functional sperm concentration, Velocity, Sperm Motility index and total 
ejaculation report. 
13. 
Facility for determination of linear and curvilinear velocities should be available. 
14. 
Facility for determination of velocities- VCL, VSL, VAP, ALH, Linearity, STR, BCF & wobbling 
should be available. 
15. 
Facility for automated morphology measurements as per WHO parameters including display 
of sperm parameter i.e. head, length, width, regularity, % acrosome, neck width, insertion & 
no. of tail & length of tail should be available. 
16. 
Classification of detected features into user definable classes using a combination of any 
measurement parameters including biomarker like fructose, zinc, and alpha-glycosidase 
should be desirable. 
17. 
There should be facility for transfer of all data/results to MS excel, word or pdf. 


--- Page 46 ---
                                                                  
                                                               
                                                           Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/PATHO/18/01/GTE 
46 
 
18. 
In built report generator for generating custom reports complete with data tables, 
histograms, images & videos should be available. 
19. 
All data should be stamped with date, time, and magnification and calibration information. 
20. 
All-in-one system should be supplied with branded computer system with window 10 or 
more to support application and camera Interface, 2 GHz multi core i7 processor, 2TB hard 
drive, 16 GB RAM, DVD+RW, USB 3.0 and HDMI port, 24” TFT/ LED Monitor (1920 x 
1200), wireless keyboards, mouse, and appropriate barcode reader 
along with 
multifunctional color laser duplex printing printer with consumables (2 cartridges) with 
2000 sheets of A4 size paper should be provided. 
21. 
Microscope should have sextuple nosepiece and multiple wavelength filters for using 8 or 
more fluorescence filters including DAPI FITC and TRITC suitable for semen analysis. 
Should be trinocular with camera adaptor with facility for positive phase contrast and 
option to upgrade to DIC. Camera adapter, 4 X, 10x phase, 40X, 100x plan-achromat 
objectives, wide field eyepiece with 20 a field of view, illuminator should be of 12-15 W LED 
Light source equivalent of 12V-100W halogen with life span of minimum 50000 hours. 
22. 
The camera should be Hi Speed shuttered USB 3.0 camera for Sequence capturing with: 
Global shutter, color, 1280 x 1024. 60 frames/sec. CCD Camera to support for 60-90 
Fbs/sev. 
C/CS mount USB connector seamlessly interfaced to Software 
23. 
The calibration, IQ, OQ and PQ of the instrument should be performed at the time of 
installation and certificates should be provided. 
24. 
Yearly calibration certificate including temperature calibration verification, test temperature 
non-uniformity test and performance diagnostic test within warranty as well as in CMC 
should be provided. 
25. 
Sperm chamber and Sperm meter with 10 μ depth not requiring semen dilution should be 
provided. 
26. 
Heating Stage Ambient to 55 ºC fixed to microscope stage should be provided.  
27. 
System should be CE-IVD or FDA or BIS approved product. 
28. 
Branded Online UPS of 3KVA for one hour backup should be provided. 
29. 
Start-up kit for at least 100 tests including all consumables (slide, cover slips etc.) should 
be provided free of cost for pH, viscosity, morphology and vitality; and 10 Tests of DNA 
fragmentation, antisperm antibody, nucleoprotein, HOS, fructose, α- glycosidase and zinc. 
(may be done manually) 
30. 
Appropriate anti-vibration table with granite top of standard make should be provided to 
accommodate the instrument, computer system and accessories.  
31. 
Document or order copy supporting satisfactory performance from AIIMS/ institute of 
national importance (minimum one) should be provided.  


--- Page 47 ---
                                                                  
                                                               
                                                           Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/PATHO/18/01/GTE 
47 
 
32. 
Support for induction and follow up training of technical staff, on-site standardization 
trouble shooting of procedures/tests to be provided by the company. 
33. 
Five (5) years warranty and Five (5) years CMC should be provided.   
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE 
document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic 
parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of 
installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date of 
satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period 
by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After 
sales 
service 
centre 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service should 
be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the 
spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date of 
supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian 
Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the 
equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same will be in line with the 
training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site 
Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service 
/operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory 
completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for 
complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts 
wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The supplier shall visit 
each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer‟ s technical/ service 
/operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive 
maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender 
Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of 
any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim 
for the same will be entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee 
for 2.5% of the cost of the equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 months after 
expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 
365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime 
period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee‟ s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 


--- Page 48 ---
                                                                  
                                                               
                                                           Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/PATHO/18/01/GTE 
48 
 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the 
Bank Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 49 ---
                                                                  
                                                               
                                                           Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/PATHO/18/01/GTE 
49 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, 
wherever required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to 
be installed, in consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. 
Site Modification Work details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the 
end of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of 
the Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The 
Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking 
Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation 
the price will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be 
entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderer's attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The 
tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it's tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical 
equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety 
Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard 
IEC- 60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is 
not available they should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for 
electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test 
and Development Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance 
call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard 
interface interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital 
management information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost 
technical training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment 
on site at the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be 
required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and 
CMC period. 


