--- Page 38 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/ BPL/ Urology/ESWL/24-25/GTE/…… 
 
 
Page 38 of 62 
 
 
SECTION - VII:  
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS for Integrated Extracorporeal Shock Wave Lithotripter (ESWL)  
Integrated Extracorporeal Shock Wave Lithotripter (ESWL) 
For treatment of urinary stones in adult and children, and CBD and pancreatic duct stones 
Integration is defined as when all the components of the ESWL (Shock wave generator, imaging system, 
and patient table) are all built into a single, cohesive system and this includes mechanical and functional 
integration. 
The system should provide Anesthesia free treatment and should have integrated X-ray and ultra- sound 
localization facilities. The system should comprise the following: 
 
Shock Wave Source 
 
Stone localization system 
 
ECG Monitor 
 
Patient Information management system 
 
Treatment table and accessories 
 
Hand Control Unit 
 
Separate Remote Console 
Shock Wave Source: 
1. Should have Electro Magnetic Shock Wave Emittertechnology. 
2. Membrane based dry/wet coupling. 
3. The Shock head should have a penetration depth of 170mm or more. 
4. Shock wave head should have facility for variable energy level for facilitating low energy treatments for 
pediatric patients and high energy treatments for hard stones. 
5. Should enable under and over table treatments for all the treatments in comfortable supine position and 
should have facility of seamless multiple therapy window angles. 
6.Shock wave head and C-Arm fluoroscopy should be mounted inline such that both should have same 
axis of rotation. 
7.  Should have variable levels of energy at least in 11 steps. 
8. Adjustable step-wise frequency shock release should be minimum 30 or less and maximum 100or more 
shocks per minute, in increment of 10, with facility of ECG triggering. (+/- 10%) 
9. Should automatically adjust to the patient body contour even on slightest patient movements during the 
treatment. 
10.Should have imaging technology to view the patient contact interface from within the therapy head. 
11. Unified hand control should control all the parameters of shock wave, movement of Shock wave 
source, C- Arm and Table. The display of Unified hand control should also indicate the coupling pressure 
for shockwave release. Unified hand control should have image oriented movement mode for X ray guided 
ESWL to enable precise movement of target to the focus with pictorial guidance 
12. Movement of Shock wave source should be motorized, in all the required axes (viz. X and Y) to enable 
precise movement of the focus to the target. The under the table and over the table positions of the Shock 
wave source should also be motorized. 
Stone Localization System: Integrated, isocentric fluoroscopy and ultrasonography: 
1.  Localization and treatment using simultaneous dual imaging (ultrasound as well as X ray Fluoroscopy) 
should be possible. 
2.  Both the imaging systems should be iso-centric to the Focus. 
 


--- Page 39 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/ BPL/ Urology/ESWL/24-25/GTE/…… 
 
 
Page 39 of 62 
 
 
Integrated X-Ray: 
1.  Should have completely integrated, iso-centric and motorized X-ray C-arm localization and targeting 
system. 
2.  15 kw or more X-ray capability to allow all endo- urological interventions 
3.  High frequency X-Ray generator, double focus X-Ray tube and flat panel detector 
4. X-Ray C-Arm should move iso-centric to the shock wave source in both lateral directions to achieve 
two positions to localize the stone in three dimensions. 
5.  AP "0" degree and both CC directions i.e. CC+ and CC-30 degree (+/-10%) 
6.  At least two medical grade, minimum 17-inch monochrome monitor should be supplied 
7. All movements of the C-arm should be motorized and controlled through the unified hand control  
Ultrasound System: 
1.  A color ultrasound should be supplied. 
2.  Should have a 15" or bigger flat panel monitor 
3. Should have 1 -7.0 MHz multi-frequency transducer for lithotripsy with urological software package. 
4. Localization should be done through integrated and articulating ultrasound arm iso-centric to the shock 
wave source with outline transducer for best image quality. 
5.  Should have curvilinear and linear probe. 
ECG Triggering: 
1. Should supply a compatible ECG monitor for monitoring as well astriggering of shock wave release. 
Patient Information Management System: 
1.  Workstation 
2.  Live X-Ray Image Acquisition/Processing 
3.  Features: Last image Hold, window and level control, Horizontal reverse, vertical reverse, Grey level 
invert 
4.  Image Format/Storage 
5.  Export Function 
6.  System Backup: CD-R/DVD-R, Patient data / image archive, CD-R or DVD-R/-RW 
7.  Print Functions 
DICOM 3.0 Services: 
 Media Interchange. 
 Work list Management. 
 Storage System 
 Basic Print 
Advanced Patient Data Management: 
Features: User defined templates for diagnosis and therapy, indication of calculi on image for easy 
documentation, patient history record and acquisition of therapy data, data analysis and statistics. 
Treatment table & accessories: 
1.  Ergonomically designed patient table usable for both for ESWL and endourological procedures by 
allowing full patient access. 
2.  Should have a 3-Way motorized treatment table with extensions and basic accessories for patient 
positioning and comfort. 
3.  Table should be completely integrated with system. 


--- Page 40 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/ BPL/ Urology/ESWL/24-25/GTE/…… 
 
 
Page 40 of 62 
 
 
4. Table movements should be possible with the same hand control unit which is for shock wave release. 
5. Design should accommodate the C-arm movement on both CC (+ 30 degree and -30 degree) directions. 
6.  In case of an emergency, the same table should be used for transportation of patient. 
Hand Held Control Panel: 
1. Should have unified hand control unit to have all the movements of table, C-arm, shockwave parameters 
and shockwave release from the same. 
Remote Console: 
Separate remote console with facility for controlling imaging, stone localization, targeting, shockwave 
parameters and patient monitoring. 
Terms & Conditions: 
1.  ESWL system should be BIS/CDSCO approved. 
2.  Should have installation within India of the quoted/similar model, for spot evaluations, if needed. 
3.  Bidder should facilitate to get the NOC to import the machine and to operate from AERB. 
4.  Suitable indigenous UPS with 30 minutes battery backup for complete load of the ESWL machine as 
per actual requirement. 
5.  The system should be upgradable and all spare parts should be available for next 10 years after 
Commissioning. 
General Requirements: 
i).Warranty: Five years from the date of installation. 
ii). CMC: Five years after warranty. 
Common Terms & Conditions for Warranty and CMC: 
1) Uptime shall be 98% on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis, failing to which, a suitable penalty shall 
be imposed. 
2) 5 years Standard Warranty + 5 years CMC prices should be fixed. 
3) List of consumable items (which will not cover under Warranty/CMC) with rates shall be provided 
separately, which may be fixed (RC) for at least 3 years. 
4) Supplier has to provide onsite repair and maintenance of medical equipment under warranty and CMC 
through authorized service personnel only.  
5) If supplier fail to repair the equipment or wants to take equipment out from the AIIMS Bhopal for repair 
beyond stipulated time period then they should provide a stand-by equipment within 7 days. 
6) Supplier has to provide annual calibration of medical equipment as per NABH Standards, under 
Warranty and CMC. 
6. a) All master instruments/tools used for calibration shall be calibrated and traceability certificate shall 
also be provided. 
6. b) Calibration reports/certificates shall be submitted in the standard format. 
6. c) Calibration sticker has to be pasted on the each equipment, indicating calibration done date and next 
calibration due date.  
7) Preventive Maintenance Services (PMS) shall be performed by supplier at least once in every 6 months 
with submission of PMS report. PMS sticker has to be pasted on the equipment, indicating PMS done date 
and next PMS due date. 
8) Onsite hands on training and demonstration shall be provided to the user department/technical staffs 
during installation and as and when requested by user department. 
9)  Supplier shall provide documents with equipment such as SOP, regulatory clearances, 
quality/safety/calibration certificates, factory testing certificate, user manual, cleaning/disinfection 


--- Page 41 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/ BPL/ Urology/ESWL/24-25/GTE/…… 
 
 
Page 41 of 62 
 
 
procedure etc.      
10) Supplier has to ensure electrical safety of equipment as per standards and quality assurance of the 
medical equipment. 
11) Warranty as well as Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) should be inclusive of 
All kinds of sensors, probes, transducers and reusable accessories. 
Printers and imagers including laser and thermal printers with all parts.  
Internal battery of the equipment. 
UPS including replacement of batteries and timely check-ups as per safety standards should be ensured. 
Coating/Painting of the equipment (whenever required). 
All third party items supplied with equipment. 
Turnkey work (Civil, Electrical, AC & R), Furniture and all other items supplied under Purchase Order 
shall be covered under Warranty and CMC, if applicable.       
 
Scope for Turnkey Work 
Sl. 
No. 
Specification 
1 
Break wall and room construction of the proposed ESWL site as per AERB norms. 
2 
Partition/modification of room to make console room. 
3 
Lead glass window in ESWL Procedure room. 
4 
Anti skid tiles. 
5 
Adequate LED lighting. 
6 
Wooden doors with lead shielding as per AERB norms for ESWL Procedure room and console room. 
7 
Electrical: Power will supplied by the Hospital authority to UPS room after that all necessary work will be 
done by Vendor, adequate light and power point to be considered in whole area 
8 
Earthing: 1 separate copper plate earthing 
9 
Air Conditioning: The entire carpet area should be air conditioned with AC machine of appropriate 
tonnage to maintain temperature 20 to 22 degree Celsius. 
10 
UPS: 20 KVA online UPS with 30 minutes battery backup 
11 
Wooden table for Console room – 1 Nos. 
12 
Revolving chairs on wheels with arm rest – 2 Nos.  
13 
Cup Board in console room - 2no 
14 
Lead Apron -15 Nos. 
15 
Lead Thyroid shield – 15 Nos. 
16 
Lead Apron holder – 5 Nos. 
17 
Color compatible laser printer with 5 additional cartridge 
18 
Black and white compatible laser printer with 5 additional cartridge 
19 
Led Apron holder (wall Mounted or wheel mounted) -2 Nos. 
20 
Office chairs-6 Nos. 


--- Page 42 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/ BPL/ Urology/ESWL/24-25/GTE/…… 
 
 
Page 42 of 62 
 
 
21 
Centre table - 2  Nos. 
22 
Computer table-2 Nos. 
23 
Stools-10 Nos. 
24 
Glass almirah-2 Nos. 
25 
Iron Almirah-2 Nos. 
26 
Foot step- 2 Nos. 
27 
Patient medication trolley- 5 Nos. 
28 
Iv stand-5 Nos. 
29 
Patient Multipara monitor 
30 
LED X ray view box – 3 Nos. 
31 
3 Seater patient waiting chairs – 4 Nos. 
32 
Shoe rack for patients and staff – 3 Nos. 
33 
QA Test of C Arm as per AERB guideline. 
 
 
 Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description as 
per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item Description 
offered by Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document for complete 
equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuum tic parts wherever applicable). Warranty 
period will be 05 years from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work 
from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment 
to AIIMS Bhopal 
b) In-case of complaint, and emergency number to be provided and complaint to be cognizance to 
be taken within 24 hours of complaint  
c) 98% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by double the 
downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
d) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty & CMC Period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 
(hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. 
The service should be provided directly by Bidder/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that 
the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents (if they 
have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of 
the consignee. The same will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical 
specification. 
 
Section – VIII 


