--- Page 25 ---
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 25 
AIIMS Rishikesh Tender Enquiry No.  .  24/  MRI stereotactic frame /Neurosurgery /734/2024-RISH (ADMN) 
 
Technical Specification for MRI Compatible Stereotactic Frame 
 
1. The main components of the stereotactic system should have a Cartesian frame and a semicircular arc, 
suitable for accommodating all head sizes of both adult and pediatric stereotaxy (for children over 5 years 
of age and compatible with X ray, CT, 1.5T and 3T MRI and its gantry.  
2. The semicircular arc should incorporate a sliding instrument carrier for use with stereotactic needles, 
electrodes, and other micro surgical instruments.  
3. Sterilization trays for both the frames and are compatible for gas sterilization (ETO), steam sterilization 
(autoclaving) and gas plasma sterilization to be provided. 
4. The stereotactic system should be arc centered with a 160 mm or more radius, and based on Cartesian 
coordinate system conforming to the X, Y and Z nomenclature used in CT and MR Scanning.  
5. Numeric coordinate values (in millimeters) should be engraved on the frame and arc to ensure maximal 
accuracy.  
6. The system should be provided with 2 different sized head posts for anterior and posterior or the posterior 
post should have different options of lengths -e.g., long, medium and short, or should be of adjustable 
height.  
7. Different size head pins should be provided (50 no) 
8. The guide and Stop inserts should be separate to enable effective cleaning.  
9. The instrument carrier should have separate adjustable instrument guide and stop to ensure accuracy.  
10. CT and MR adapters along with base unit, if required, should be included in the system to secure and 
support the patient's head and should be adjustable to ensure a parallel scan plan without having to 
manipulate the gantry of the scanner  
11. The coordinate frame and the stereotactic arc should provide a stable and reliable treatment platform with 
proven sub-millimeter accuracy  
12. The system should allow for transoral or transnasal intubation at any time during the procedure. It should 
also allow for an approach inferior to the frame to enable posterior fossa and transphenoidal procedures.  
13. It should preferably have ear pins for utilization as positioners and stabilizers for frame placement on the 
patient.  
14. It should allow for arc fixation to the frame in both the lateral and sagittal orientation with provision for 
three point fixation or side mounting for easy and fast access to the targeted trajectories  
15. The Stereotactic system should have a dedicated CT table fixation, Adaptor, indicator box and for MRI 
should have a dedicated adaptor and indicator box or CT/MRI compatible localizer. These should 
however not limit how low the frame may be mounted  
16. The stereotactic frame should be provided with a universal table attachment to attach the frame to 3-pin 
or 4 pin fixator available in the hospital. 
17. It should have compatible adapter for any suitable stereotactic instruments. 
18. The system should be compatible with any Microdrive available in the market.  
19. Stereotactic system should be compatible for radio frequency lesioning/ should also have an adapter 
compatible to any RF Lesion electrodes for Stereotaxy available in the market. 
20. The Stereotactic System should have an option for testing its accuracy of the complete frame and arc with 
the target stimulator.  
21. The company should preferably provide a tool to test the straightness of the needles and electrodes . The 
Stereotactic system should provide tools for intra-operative image verification of the placement of clinical 
probes in relation the target- accessory/tool to show electrode position while using C-ARM. 


--- Page 26 ---
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 26 
AIIMS Rishikesh Tender Enquiry No.  .  24/  MRI stereotactic frame /Neurosurgery /734/2024-RISH (ADMN) 
 
22. The Stereotactic Frame should offer a rigid and accurate fixation to the operation table headrest with 
three-point fixation and should have a curved front piece which provides access to the patients’ airways 
and It can be fitted with the curve both in the inferior or superior orientation.  
23. The coordinate frame should have an insertion cannula and hematoma evacuator designed to obtain safe 
guidance of implants, electrodes or catheters using stereotactic technique and hematoma evacuation using 
single burr hole.  
24. The stereotactic system should provide instrument designed for the injection, diagnostic and therapeutic 
punctures, aspirations and evacuations and instruments for puncturing of intracranial cavities with the 
insertion needle of diameter of appropriate diameter.  
25. (a) Spiral/side cutting Biopsy needle  - 5 in number and (b) hematoma evacuator 2 sets  
26. Twist drill for twist burr hole through stereotactic arc of varying diameter-  2 sets  
27. Needle with stop and guide. 
28. The Stereotactic system should have quality assurance tool/ Simulation dummy/phantom to provide 
independent confirmation that arc settings are accurate before putting the frame on the patient.  
29. Localization plates to provide for fitting on the Cartesian frame.  
30. Stereotactic and functional neurosurgery planning station with software on laptop/planning station that 
should include image fusion and integrated planning software to correlate with user- defined target and 
trajectory  
31. The software to be provided in a workstation which should have the provision to read the DICOM images 
using CD or USB. 
32. Software should be provided with planning software for Biopsy and DBS. 
33. Software should be able to place the entry point and target point virtually. 
34. Software should be able to provide the dynamic information about the changes that occur along the 
trajectory. 
35. Target and trajectories should be able to seen in Axial, Sagital and coronal planes simultaneously or 
individually. 
36. The software should allow virtual simulation of multiple trajectories preoperatively to choose the right 
path without affecting the critical structures. 
37. System should have CT and MR fusion facility. 
38. Necessary certifications US FDA/ European CE/BIS certified -provide details 
39. Warranty of 5 years followed by CMC for next 5 years. 
40. Buy back option is required “please provide details of manufacture policy on bay back”  
41. Upgradation for equipment “any up-gradation of equipment with in warranty period should be provided 
free of cost “  
42. Rate freeze for consumable for next 10 years. 
43. Rate freeze for accessories for next 10 years. 
Note: The item should be certified by BIS/ ISO/ USFDA/ European CE or Equivalent.  
 
 
 


