--- Page 41 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/03-460/GTE 
Page 41 of 65 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL  SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Multimode Microplate Reader 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. Warranty: 5 years against  manufacturing defect  
2. All instruments should be corrosion resistant, autoclavable, BIS approved. 
3. Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ quotation clearly marking the 
Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. All the components of item under a particular serial no. will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the firms. 
6. L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central government hospitals 
like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of satisfactory working from the concerned 
government hospital. 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR “MULTIMODE MICROPLATE READER” 
1. Multimode Microplate Reader should have capabilities to detect UV-VIS Absorbance, 
Fluorescence, FRET, Time Resolved-Fluorescence, TR-FRET, Fluorescence Polarization, 
Luminescence, with flexible monochromator-based optics along with filter based optic module for 
high sensitivity experiments. 
2. It should be able to perform endpoints, kinetic, spectral scans and well-area scanning in all 
detection modes. Top and Bottom reading. 
3. Should be able to use 6- to 384-well plates as well as micro-volume plates to measure up to 16 
nos. 2 µL microspots. Micro-volume plate to measure 2 µL sample should be provided with the 
system.  
4. Temperature range - Ambient +40C to 45°C with facility to prevent condensation in lidded plates. 
5. It should have linear, orbital and double orbital shaking facility with variable speed and duration 
6. The detection methodology should be both Monochromators for flexibility and filters based for 
higher sensitivity. For monochromators, the wavelength selection should be through double 
grating monochromator. The system should allow to switch between monochromator to filter 
optics through control software. 
7. Monochromator optics should have its independent light source (Xenon Lamp) and PMT detector 
for Fluorescence 
8. Filter optics should have it independent light source (Xenon Lamp) and PMT detector for 
Fluorescence. 
9. Should have automated focal height adjustment 
10. Light source - Xenon flash Lamp 
11. For absorbance mode: 
a. Light Source: Xenon Flash Lamp 
b. Wavelength range: 230 - 999 nm with 1 nm increments  
c. Dynamic range 0 - 4.0 OD (Resolution- 0.0001 OD)   
d. With path-length correction 
12. For Fluorescence mode: 
e. Light Source: Xenon Flash Lamp 
f. Wavelength range: 250 - 700 nm  
g. Dynamic range : 7 decades 


--- Page 42 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/03-460/GTE 
Page 42 of 65 
 
h. Sensitivity: Monochromator 
                   Top: Fluorescein 2.5 pM (0.25 fmol/well 384-well plate) or lower 
                   Bottom: Fluorescein 4.0 pM (0.4 fmol/well 384-well plate) or lower 
i. Filters: Fluorescein 0.25 pM (0.025 fmol/well, 384-well plate) 
j. Detector: 2 PMT detector. One independent PMT detector for Monochromator optics and 
one independent PMT detector for Filter optics 
13. For Time-Resolved Fluorescence mode: 
a. Light Source: Xenon Flash Lamp 
b. Wavelength range: 200 - 700 nm  
c. Sensitivity: Monochromator : Europium 1200 fM (120 amol/well, 384-well plate) 
                   Filters: Europium 40 fM (4 amol/well, 384-well plate) 
d. Detector: PMT 
14. For Fluorescence Polarization mode: (OPTIONAL – requires FP filters) 
a. Light Source: Xenon Flash Lamp 
b. Wavelength range: 280 - 700 nm  
c. Sensitivity: 1.2 mP standard deviation at 1 nm fluorescein 
d. Detector: PMT 
15. For Luminescence mode: 
a. Wavelength range: 300 - 700 nm  
b. Dynamic range 6 decades or more 
c. Sensitivity:  Monochromator: 20 amol ATP (flash) 
                    Filters: 10 amol ATP (flash), 100 amol (glow) 
16. Reading speed should be not more than 12 sec for 96 wells and not more than 24 secs for 384 well 
plates 
17. Instrument control software, advanced data analysis software should be provided with instrument. 
The software should be multi-user license. 
18. The vendor should complete the installation, demonstration at the user site and should provide all 
the technical brochures and manuals. 
19. Computer with latest configuration should be provided 
20. Suitable UPS to be provided with a backup of 30 mins 
21. Warranty 5 years & CMC for 5 years 
22. Should provide previous PO copies related to installations at various INI. 
23. Demonstration should be given during the technical evaluation.  
 
 
   
 Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description as 
per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item Description 
offered by Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 43 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/03-460/GTE 
Page 43 of 65 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document 
for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever 
applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning 
and 
Site 
Modification 
Work 
from 
the 
date 
of 
satisfactory 
installation, 
commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by 
double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, 
maximum within 8 hrs. The service should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. 
Undertaking by the Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 
10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents 
(if 
they have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the 
satisfaction of the consignee. The same will be in line with the training modalities as 
specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site 
Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes preventive 
maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service /operational manual 
of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory completion of Warranty period 
may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for complete equipment 
(including Batteries 
for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). 
The supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended 
in the manufacturer’s technical/ 
service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ 
year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender 
Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any 
such 
stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim for the same 
will be 
entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be taken at Net 
Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory completion of 
said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee for 5% of the cost of the 
CMC contract as per Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 
(days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime period. 
f) During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at least twice 
in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, 
commencing from the date of the successful completion of warranty period for preventive 
maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the Bank 
Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 44 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/03-460/GTE 
Page 44 of 65 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, 
wherever required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be 
installed, in consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. Site 
Modification Work details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end 
of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of the 
Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The Site 
Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the 
price will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be 
entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderer’s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). 
The tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it‟s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical 
equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety 
Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 
60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not 
available they should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for 
electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test 
and Development Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance 
call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management 
information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost 
technical training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment 
on site at the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be 
required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and 
CMC period 
 
 


