--- Page 19 ---
                                                                  Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/PMRD/2018/012/OT/A 
 
Page 19 of 24 
 
Technical Specification for MUSCULO-SKELETAL USG MACHINE:  
A state of art fully digital, compact Color Doppler Ultrasound machine is required with 
following technical features: 
1. Unit should be able to give very high image quality with advance technologies like 
compound imaging for better contrast resolution, tissue differentiation and edge 
detection, equivalent to high end cart based systems. Please specify the technology. 
2. Unit should be compact, durable &amp; less than 5 kg in weight. 
3. Imaging modes of Real time 2D and M mode must be available. Also Colour Doppler, 
Power Doppler, pulsed wave Doppler, Continuous wave Doppler preferably be available. 
4. Standard tissue harmonic imaging should be available in the probe. 
5. System should have both online (Read) as well as offline (Write) zoom facility. 
6. Post processing features should be possible on freeze and cine images i.e., zoom, gray 
maps and measurement, reports, pictograms and annotations. 
7. Zoom facility should be available with real time, frozen image and including cine 
replay. Up to X 20 should be available. 
8. System must have fast start up to scanning in less than 30 seconds from off condition, 
for use in critical care environment and emergency field situations. 
9. System should support transducer technologies like phased array, convex, linear & 
amp; TEE format. 
10. The system should have a broadband architecture with an operating frequency of at 
least 1 to 15 MHz 
11. Cine memory should be available on all operating modes. 
12. The system shall process a dynamic range that is at least 165db. The system must 
display at a maximum depth of 35 cm. 
13. The offered unit must have Flat LCD/ TFT monitor of at least 12 inches with Anti-
glare coating and flicker free image. 
14. Alphanumeric soft keys backlit and splash resistant keypad with easy access scans 
controls, facility to sanitize the system keyboard to avoid cross contamination. 
15. The system must have the ability to function by AC/DC or battery power with the 
same degree of functionality, the battery life (run time) shall be at least 2 (Two) hours, 
this need to demonstrate. 
16. The system must have archive capability for storage &amp; retrieval of images and 
clips. It should have at- least 2 USB slots, which allow for direct sharing of images 
(JPEG) and clips (AVI) to a PC. 
17. Unit &amp; transducers must be rugged, resistant to breakage &amp; damage on 
fall/hit so as to withstand busy & field situations. 
18. The system must have in-built memory of at least 16 GB for storing Patient data 
&amp; studies. 
19. The system shall support the all DICOM functionality, Storage, Print, and Work List, 
also ready to connectto PACS. 


--- Page 20 ---
                                                                  Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/PMRD/2018/012/OT/A 
 
Page 20 of 24 
 
20. Should operate on 220v 50 Hz AC. 
21. System should have both European CE and US FDA quality certification. 
Transducers &amp; other accessories to be supplied as standard: 
1. 6-13 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency, broadband linear array, 50 mm (+/- 5 mm) 
transducer for vascular, venous, small parts, musculoskeletal, Lung, nerve imaging with 
less than 40mm size. Higher frequency will be preferred 
2. A trolley stand must be available to store and/or transport the system. 
3. Triple Transducer Connector with electronic switching facility to toggle between 
transducers. 
4. Thermal Printer (Black and white) 
5. Needle visualization software which can dynamically optimize the image to give the 
best possible view of the needle in real time. 
WARRANTY: 
Main unit and transducers should be covered with comprehensive onsite warranty for 
five years commencing from the date of issue of installation certificate. 
ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENT: 
Onsite training to 2 doctors and education material must be provided post installation 
of the system. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


