--- Page 48 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Automated Bacterial Identification System 
Page 45 of 69 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Automated Bacterial 
Identification System with compatible accessories 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. 
Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ 
quotation clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the 
firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS for “Automated Bacterial Identification System” 
Matrix Assisted Laser De – Ionization Time of Flight Mass Spectrometry 
[MALDITOF: MS] 
1. 
General: 
a. 
It Must be a Desktop / Benchtop Model.  
b. 
The system should be fully automated with Suitable, Updated, Upgraded and 
Latest Version of the Software for Microbial Identification of Gram-Positive Bacteria, 
Gram Negative Bacteria, Aerobic and Anaerobic Bacteria, Mycobacterium [both 
Mycobacterium Tuberculosis Complex and Non-Tubercular Mycobacteria], Yeast, 
Yeast Like 
Fungi, 
and 
Filamentous 
Fungi 
along 
with Streptomyces 
and 
Actinomycetes.  
c. 
It should also be able to identify cultivable zoonotic bacteria like Brucella, 
Bacillus, Yersinia, Pasteurella, Listeria, Campylobacter, Bartonella, Salmonella etc  
d. 
It should also be able to identify All Glucose Non-Fermenting Bacteria to 
species level. 
e. 
It should be FDA, IVD and CE approved MALDI – TOF based microbial 
identification system 
f. 
Any accessory system(s) other than those mentioned in the technical 
specifications, that are required for satisfactory installation of the system should 
supplied with the instrument. 


--- Page 49 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Automated Bacterial Identification System 
Page 46 of 69 
 
 
2. 
Equipment Specifications: 
a. 
The equipment be completely automated based on Matrix Assisted Laser De – 
Ionization Time of Flight Mass Spectrometry Technology for rapid and instant 
Microbial Identification with a capability of fast measurements and high 
reproducibility.  
b. 
It Must Have a Linear TOF measurement with scintillogram detection range of 
m/z 1 to 500,000 
c. 
Should have a mass accuracy of < 20 ppm (internal standard), < 150 ppm 
(external standard) 
d. 
Should use a Suitable Laser with a preferable wavelength of 330 – 350 nm & 
1khz that lasts up to minimum of 100 billion laser shots. 
e. 
It should have vacuum pumps with easy period maintenance. 
f. 
System should be able to accept not less than 96 positions reusable or 
disposable MALDI target plates for samples loading. 
g. 
Should supply with minimum 10 numbers of barcoded 96 position reusable 
stainless target plates or 20 barcoded 48 position disposable slides in load and go 
manner as target slides for sample input.  
h. 
Should provide Matrix & Calibration Standards, Solvents and consumables 
sufficient for 1000 aerobic bacteria, 100 Mycobacteria and 100 yeast sample 
analysis. 
i. 
All consumables required for installation and for the demonstration of system 
to be provided. 
j. 
Should provide necessary accessory with the instrument such as Suitable 
online UPS with at least 6 hours back up. 
k. 
Supplier must agree to provide IQ, OQ and PQ certification at the time of 
installation or as per the convenience of end user of the institute. 
l. 
The system must be FDA approved / cleared and supporting documents must 
be attached in the bid document. 
m. 
The Equipment should have 95% up working (functional) during the warranty 
period. The bidder should ensure service & repair promptly in case of break down 
within 24 hours. 
n. 
Instrument should use automated mode of sample profile acquisition and no 
manual intervention should be required in profile acquisition to avoid compliance 
issues in Clinical reporting 
3. 
Parameters for Analysis: 
a. 
Should be Capable of identifying microbes up to species level and software 
should be closed not allowing user to make changes to identification. 
b. 
Should be able to detect low amount of input cells ~105, and capable to 


--- Page 50 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Automated Bacterial Identification System 
Page 47 of 69 
 
identify the species in <1 minute / sample or faster. 
c. 
System should not have any chances of carry-over / cross contamination of 
user hazard during sample input. 
d. 
For BSL – 3 level organisms, testing in the equipment, there should not be any 
special decontamination required by the users to follow 
e. 
Should be capable of taxonomical classification. 
f. 
Should accept different samples from both non-clinical and clinical origin. 
g. 
Capable denoting mixed population (at least 2 species) in a mixed culture 
h. 
Should be Capable of Identification of Pathogens Directly from Positive Blood 
Culture Bottles 
4. 
Software: 
a. 
Should be Windows Based / Compliant, versatile, easy to use instrument 
control, and database and analysis software. 
b. 
Results should be displayed directly with the species of microbe. 
c. 
Should capable to do in-depth analysis with bioinformatics tools for sub-
typing, PCA and Dendrogram. 
d. 
Should have sample management part with original growing conditions, 
preparation details and life cycle data of reference spectra within the database. 
e. 
Should have taxonomy trees against reference spectra concerning taxonomic 
relationships. 
f. 
The database should have mostly the IVD approved microbial species for 
clinical reporting. 
g. 
Should have sufficient IVD approved Mycobacteria database for identification. 
h. 
Should have Sufficient IVD approved Filamentous fungi database. 
i. 
Should have necessary kits for Direct ID from Blood culture. 
5. 
Database: 
a. 
organism list should be available in the database and the database must take 
into account the strain variability and culture conditions  
b. 
Should be integrated with a ready to use reference library. 
c. 
Should have automatic regular updates of the database 
6. 
Custom Library: 
a. 
System should have software capability to generate database for new microbial 
species by the user at his lab itself. 
b. 
Database should have open architecture to allow customized in-house library 
generation, which can be used for microbial ID further. 


--- Page 51 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Automated Bacterial Identification System 
Page 48 of 69 
 
 
7. 
Workstation, Accessories & Reagents: 
a. 
Suitable windows operating workstation with advanced inbuilt touch screen 
with minimum configuration of Intel i7 10th generation processor, 16 GB RAM, 1 TB 
SSD hard disk with other accessories, high resolution LED 21" color monitor AND 
Preloaded with Original MS Office Software for One Computer with Lifetime Validity. 
b. 
Color Laser Printer with two sets of Extra Cartridges of Black and All Colors 
with wireless facility, and Barcode scanner with holder should be supplied. 
c. 
Should be supplied with minimum 10 numbers of barcoded 96 position 
reusable stainless target plates OR 10 to 15 disposable slides in load and go manner 
as target slides for sample input. 
d. 
Should provide Matrix & Calibration Standards, Solvents and consumables 
sufficient for 1000 Aerobic, 100 Mycobacteria and 100 yeast sample analysis. 
e. 
Should provide ATCC Control Strains for maintaining internal QC / 
Calibrators 
i. 
Escherichia coli 
ii. 
Klebsiella aerogenes 
iii. 
Candida glabrata 
iv. 
Mycobacteria smegmatis 
v. 
Nocardia farcinica 
vi. 
Aspergillus brasiliensis 
f. 
Should provide necessary accessories with the instrument such as robust 
suitable online UPS with at least 6 hours back up. 
g. 
Price for the Consumables, kits should be quoted under option for further 
procurement. 
h. 
Calibration Certificate from Manufacturer at the time of Installation 
8. 
Additional Terms and Conditions: 
a. 
The bidders must agree to provide any up gradation and update of system and 
software’s (if any) free of cost for next 05 years from the date of successful 
installation. 
b. 
All consumables required for installation, operational and performance 
qualification and for the demonstration of system to be provided. 
c. 
The bidders must agree to provide minimum of 5 years of comprehensive 
warranty (including all manufacturing defects, all spares, accessories software 
application, faulty workmanship, if any and all labor) from date of actual completion 
of satisfactory installation of equipment must be provided. The bidders must agree 
that breakdown of the instrument will be addressed within 24 hours by an onsite 
visit. 


--- Page 52 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Automated Bacterial Identification System 
Page 49 of 69 
 
d. 
The CMC for subsequent 5 years must be quoted after completion of warranty 
period. 
e. 
End user feedback from at least Three MALDI – TOF Users from reputed 
Government Institutions should be provided. The list of these users, with full details 
of contact persons, addresses, telephone, mobile and email should also be provided 
in table format 
f. 
Complete price should be quoted for different consumables which will be used 
in the equipment in the future. These prices should be frozen for subsequent 05 
years and in case of reduction of price the lower price to be communicated and to be 
charged by the supplier. Undertaking must be given by the supplier in this regard. 
Price of all reagents must be quoted in tender. No additional reagent should be 
quoted later 
g. 
Bidder should agree to provide mandatory onsite application training. Should 
demonstrate the required objective of the test with the claimed limit of detection / 
quantification with the sample provided and or bring suitable samples. Training 
should be given to the staff onsite, for the operation of the instrument on demand. 
• 
Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description 
as per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item 
Description 
offered 
by 
Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. 
Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the 
TE document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years 
from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work 
from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & 
handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty 
period by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) 
basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty 
period. 
2. 
After Sales Service:  
After 
sales 
service 
center 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service 
should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the 
Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 
years from the date of supply. 
3. 
Training:  
4. 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ 
Indian Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and 
maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same 
will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical 
specification. 


