--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Pul-Med/18/035/OT 
 
 
 
Page 19 of 24 
 
Annexure - I 
 TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION OF 
     “BROADBASED QR FOR BODY PLETHYSMOGRAPH WITH        
                                   DIFFUSION STUDY ” 
         FOR DEPARTMENT OF PULMONARY MEDICINE 
 
 
Body Box (Pleythsmography Machine)  
 
 
A wide cabin with internal volume range of > 800 litres to provide ease of 
accessibility and comfort to the patient without effecting volume changes. 
 
Transparent robust glass walls to ensure visibility from all sides and minimize any 
claustrophobic feeling for the patient. 
 
The seat must be ergonomic, comfortable and adjustable in height to bear weight up 
to 150Kg 
 
The arm for the breathing valve support, must be flexible enough to allow tests 
execution even outside the cabin 
 
Controlling station should be on a movable trolley. 
 
Intercom for communication with the patient 
 
Test and minimum set of parameter required 
 
Dynamic lung 
volumes 
Measurement of the Forced Vital Capacity (FVC), Slow Vital 
Capacity (SVC) and Maximal Ventilatory Ventilation (MVV). 
Graphic display of Flow/volume, Volume/time loops. 
Bronchial challenge 
test 
a) Measurement of the response to Bronco constriction and 
Bronco dilatation, graphic display of fall FEV1.   
b) Broncho-Challenge test with Body Plethysmography (RAW 
Challenge test) 
Static lung volumes 
Measurement of TGV, RV, VC, IRV, ERV, FRC, TLC 
Airway resistance 
RAW (Insp, exp, tot), SRAW, GAW, SGAW, Derived parameters 
 
Respiratory 
Mechanics 
MIP/MEP and Respiratory Drive (P0.1) 
 
Lung Diffusion 
Capacity Tests  
 
a) Single-Breath with Apnea 
b) Single Breath without Breath Holding (Intrabreath). 
 
Technical Specifications 
 
Flowmeters:  Pneumotachograph with Bidirectional precision 
 
CO Analyzer: Should be Non Dispersing Infrared (NDIR)  
 
CH4 Analyzer: Should be Non Dispersing Infrared (NDIR)  
or  
 
Helium Analyzer: Ultrasonic Mol mass/Thermal Conductivity determination technique  
 
Sensors: All sensors should preferably be non-consumable or their life should be 
specified and the bidder should arrange free sensors for the warranty/CMC period. 
 
Box Pressure Sensor: Type Piezoresistive Range ±1cmH2O Resolution 0.05 cmH2O 
 
Mouth Pressure Sensor:  Type Piezoresistive Range ±70cmH2O Resolution 0.1 cmH2O 


--- Page 20 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Pul-Med/18/035/OT 
 
 
 
Page 20 of 24 
 
 
Environmental Sensors: The system should have temperature, Barometric and 
Humidity Sensors. 
 
Power Supply: The operating AC Voltage range should be 100-240V AC±10% 50/60Hz 
 
Interface: It should have RS232/USB interface for connecting to a computer. 
 
Software: Latest Software should be supplied with the equipment. The management 
software should be designed for Windows 10 environment and also should be able to 
connect to online hospital information system and work flow when necessary with easy 
data storage and recovery for research purpose. 
 
Essential Accessories: The system should be supplied with all essential accessories 
required like: 
 
1. Latest Compatible Desktop PC, with latest processer CPU(latest Generation), > 
18.5” LED Color Display, 8 GB RAM, 2 TB Hard Disk, Original Windows 10 and 
DVD R/W with facility to expand up to 10TB 
2. High quality latest Colour Printer : 01 
3. On line UPS (1 KVA) : 01to provide power backup up to atleast 3hrs 
4. Diffusion Test gas cylinder (02 Nos) 
5. Compressed air Cylinder Medical Grade for Body Box (02 no.) 
6. Regulators (02 nos.) 
7. Reusable Rubber Mouthpieces: 200 nos.  
8. Anti-Bacterial Filters: 3000 nos.  
9. Reusable rubber nose clips: 100 nos. 
10. Refilling of DLCO GAS: 02 nos. 
 
Quality assurance:  
1. The system should have ISO/ BIS/ European CE/US FDA, certifications and 
should meet latest ATS/ERS standardization guidelines.  
2. The company should also provide a certificate stating the model provided in the 
latest version available.  
3. The company should also provide a certificate stating that spare parts and service 
with available easily for atleast next 10 yrs 
Warranty:  
1. Unconditional onsite warranty of 5yrs and 5yrs of CMC after the expiry of 
warranty (CMC rates to be quoted separately) 
2. Training of our technician whenever necessary or when requested by department.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


