--- Page 39 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/6795/2023/GTE/B 
39 
 
Annexure-I 
Technical Specification of “Automated Sperm Analyser” 
1. Automated system for semen analysis, which should be reportable according to the WHO 
6
thCriteria parameters. 
2. The equipment should provide the following parameters by automatically 
i. 
Concentration 
ii. 
Total sperm count 
iii. 
Total percentage motility (progressive + non progressive) 
iv. 
Percentage of Rapid Progressive motility, Percentage of Slow Progressive motility Non 
Progressive motility and Immotility. 
v. 
Motile sperm / ejaculate concentration  
vi. 
Total progressive motile/ ejaculate concentration  
vii. 
Mean Velocity VCL – which is more clinical value. 
viii. 
Functional Sperms Concentration 
ix. 
Sperm Motility index – special parameter to replace Sperm function test (like Penetrak 
test, acrobeads test, and zona-free hamster ovum human sperm penetration test (ZSPT).  
x. 
Percentage of normal sperm morphology 
3. Should have facility for a visualization system/ video microscopy – capture image and Video for 
future reference and evidence checking with Neubauer counting chamber comparable calibrated 
GIRD. Option for Multiple image and Multiple Video option to count more number of sperm for 
compare the automatic reading. 
4. Software to visualize the various morphology parameters of the sperm should be available – 
Head, Midpiece, tail, Acrosome and other morphology  
5. Vitality (Live and Dead) images should be read automatically within 2 min. 
6. DNA Fragmentation test facility should be available and should read internal core and Halo with 
as per WHO 6th classification (Big Halo, Medium Halo, Small Halo, Degraded and No Halo) 
Visualization Compartment included in Analyser itself. White LED illumination systems with 
luminous intensity 3500 mcd Digital CCD resolution at least 1280 x 1024 pixels, high resolution 
on frozen images provided by capturing a high # of frames per sec. Objective: Standard 40X optic 
Chromatic aberration correction lens incorporated inverted Digitalisation. Zoom system for 
smooth magnification transition between x1188 and x1725 Focus regulator and field of view stage 
knob. 
7. Should have facility for quality control.  
8. Should be auto calibrate and display the key value every day 
9. Disposable testing capillary – have motility channel and concentration channel. These channel will 
provide all the automatic reading through LED without image and removed subjective variations. 
Automatic reading (Concentration m/mL, Total Motility %, Rapid Progressive Motility % Slow  
Progressive Motility %, Non Progressive Motility %, Immotile % and Rapid Progressive concentration 
m/mL, Slow Progressive concentration m/mL, Functional Sperm Concentration m/mL, Sperm Motility 
Index, Total ejaculation report - Total Sperm count, Total Motile sperm concentration, Total 
Progressive concentration, Total Functional Sperm concentration and Total Normal Morphology) No 
counting chamber required. 
10. WHO parameter report should be non-image technology.  
11. The coefficient of variation of the sperm count should be less than 10%. 


--- Page 40 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/6795/2023/GTE/B 
40 
 
 
12. The reports with raw data should be saved in a non-proprietary format for data transfer Facility to 
export excel format for analysis  
13. UPS with battery backup for 1 hour should be provided.  
14. The equipment should be FDA / CE / BIS approved. 
15. Satisfactory demonstration is essential for technical qualifications. 
16. Onsite installation, training and commissioning should be done free of cost.  
17. The calibration, IQ, OQ, PQ of the instrument should be performed at the time of installation and 
Certificates should be provided. 
18. Yearly calibration certificate should be given.  
19. After sales service should be available within 24 hours and by trained service personnel.  
20. Any breakdown should be attended within 24 to 48 hours  
21. In case not rectified stand by System should be place with in 72 hours. 
22. Order copy from AIIMS and satisfactory letter should be provided  
23. Product should have long standing sales and service in Indian Market (More than 5 years).  
24. All upgrading should be done free of cost within these 10 years.  
25. OptiPlex 7490 All-in-One XCTO with Original OS Window 11 and above Windows 11 Pro, English Dell Pro 
Wireless Keyboard and Mouse – KM5221W - India Mouse ENERGY STAR Qualified included Dell Support 
Assist OS Recovery Tool Custom Configuration  11th Gen Intel Core i7 vPro label – 1TB SSD Hard Desk 
7490 AIO 23.8” FHD 1920x1080 WVA Touch Anti – Glare, IR  Camera, Integrated Graphics, Bronze 160w 
PSU  Integrated Graphics Wi-Fi 6  AX201, Dual-band 2x2 802.11ax with MU- MIMO + Bluetooth 5.1, 16GB 
RAM (1x16GB) DDR4 Non-ECC Memory Desktop-Small Freight Charges (India-I2) System Power Cord India 
6A EPEAT 2018 Registered (Silver) M.2 2280 1TB PCle NVMe Class 40 Solid State Drive Microsoft Office Trial 
(30 Days) Support Assist Dell ™ Digital Delivery Cirrus Client Regulatory Label for OptiPlex 5490/7490 AiO 
Integrated graphics confiq (ICC) Dell OptimiZer SI, MOD, INFO, MIAS, POSTBURN SI, MOD, CFI, OR-LBL, SYS-
INFO Trusted Platform Module (Discrete TPM Enabled) SI, MOD, INFO, MIAS, AP SI, MOD, INFO, LBL, MED, 
SYS, READY6, T6KFY Waves Mass Audio Integration information SI, EMEA MOD INFO DELL READY, SI, MOD, 
INFO, FIDA OR BYPASS SI, MOD, INFO, CSR, ELIGIBLE Intel Core i7-11700 (8 Cores/16MB/16T/2.5GHz to 
4.9GHz/65/W); support Windows 10/Linux Wireless Diver, Intel® WiFi 6 AX201 2x2 (Gig+) + Bluetooth 5 
OptiPlex All-in-One Height Adjustable Stand, All-in-One Pro support Plus and Accidental Damage Service, 60 
Month(s) Dell Client System Update (Updates latest Dell Recommended BIOS, Divers, Firmware and Apps) 
Touch Panel, Thermal Pad, Quick Setup Guide 7490, Intel vPro Technology Enabled. 
26. Consumables: Consumables requirement (Testing capillary, Cleaning Kit, Vitality Kit, Morphology Kit, 
DNA Fragmentation Kit, Fructose Kit, Anti Sperm Antibody Kit, HOS Kits, Dilution Kit for low Volume 
samples, pH and WBC Strips, Liquifaction Kit and Leukocytes pad) 
27. Consumable for standardization and performing 100 tests should be provided with the equipment. 
28. The printer for printing the test results should also be provided at the time on installation Quality Controls. 
29. Internal quality control and external external quality control testing options should be available. 
30. Internal quality control should be given during installation. 
31. One year external quality control program cost should be included. 
32. Five (5) years warranty and Five (5) years CMC should be provided. 
 
 
 


--- Page 41 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/6795/2023/GTE/B 
41 
 
Specification of Consumable items for “Automated Sperm Analyser” 
List of Consumable: 
01) Capillary kit: Should be O.E.M. 
02) Cleaning kit: Should be O.E.M. 
03) Vitality kit and HOS kit: Should contain 0.5% Eosinin 0.9% NaCI, with HOS solution 
04) Morphology kit: Should contain 
Methanol 
Triaryl methane dye 
Eosinicxanthene 
Basophilicxanthene 
05) D.N.A. Fragmentation kit: Should contain 
Coated Glass Slides – High melting 
Agarose Gel – Low Melting  
Diluent – Phosphate 
Lysing – Tris 
Giemsa Solution A – Wright – Giemsa Dye 
Giemsa Solution B – Phosphate  
Fixative – Ethanol  
06)  Fructose kit: Should contain 
 
Deproteinized solution – 1 
 
Deproteinized solution – 2 
 
Indole in methane solution – 3 
 
NAOH solution 4 
 
Fructose standard solution 
07) Anti sperm Anti body kit: Should contain 
 
Enzymes conjugate (Anti human IgG, IgA, IgM, conjugated to peroxide) 
 
Standard lyophilized for exact concentration with Qc certificates. 
 
Buffer substrate and stop solution (ready to use 1M Hydrogen sulphate) 
 
Microtiter plate for determination of non specific binding blocked salt solution. 
08) Dilution Kit: Should contain sterile Earles balanced salt solution. 
09) Ph and WBC strips: Should contain Ph pad of Bromothymol bule and Bromocresol Green with 
non reactive ingredients. 
Leukocytes pad: Should contain Pyrrole Amino acid Ester, Diazonium salt, buffer with non 
reactive ingredients. 
10) Liquifaction kit: Should contain 5 ml vials of lyophilized and chymotrypsin.  
Note:  01) Rates of consumable will be freezed for 05 years. Firm will provide the consumables 
for 05 years as per freezed rates.  
02) L1 will be decided on the basis of total value of Items Cost + CMC + Consumable 
Cost.  
 


--- Page 42 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/6795/2023/GTE/B 
42 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document for complete 
equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period 
will be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date 
of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by double the 
downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) 
X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service 
should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the spares for the 
equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents (if they have 
the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the 
consignee. The same will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical 
specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes preventive maintenance 
including testing & calibration as per technical/ service /operational manual of the manufacturer, 
labour and spares, after satisfactory completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on 
yearly basis for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever 
applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The supplier shall visit each consignee site as 
recommended in the manufacturer’s technical/ service /operational manual, but at least twice in six 
months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender Opening. The taxes 
to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken 
inclusive of such taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be taken at Net Present 
Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory completion of said period, 
duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee for 2.5% of the cost of the equipment as per 
Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis, 
with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee‟s site at least twice in 6 months 
(i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the 
successful completion of warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the Bank Guarantee 
for Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 43 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/6795/2023/GTE/B 
43 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, wherever required. The 
Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be installed, in consultation with HOD of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College 
concerned. 
Site 
Modification 
Work 
details 
of 
each 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices 
indicating break-up of prices of the Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College. The Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken 
inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note1:Tenderer‟s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The tenderer is to provide 
the required details, information, confirmations, etc. accordingly failing which it‟s tender is liable to 
be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of equipment for carrying out 
routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked for and should make sure that Electrical Safety 
Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS 
Safety Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 60601 is a 
part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they should provide a 
commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional 
Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development Centres across the country on every preventive 
maintenance call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface interoperability 
conditions for networked equipment in hospital management information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical training for 
personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at the institute immediately after 
its installation. The company shall be required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum 
period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC period 


