--- Page 11 ---
 Tender for Spirometer                                                                                                         Admn/Tender/112/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
01. 
Spirometer 
A spirometer which also should include oximeter for the measurement 
of pulmonary function test in children. 
1. Operational Requirement  
a. It should be portable and can be performed on bed side or 
in OPD. 
b. Feasibility of real time Flow/volume loop and volume/time 
curve with Pre/Post comparison. 
c. The parameters should be actually measured and not 
derived ones. 
d. Feasibility of Bronchial provocation test. 
e. Should have amusing on screen Pediatric incentive 
animation to help the child in performing pulmonary 
function test. 
f. Indian predictive values should be available for all 
measurements. 
2. Technical Specification 
a. The system should measure the followings 
-Slow and forced spirometer (Inspiratory and Expiratory 
Flow Volume Curve) 
 
b. The system should be also able to perform oximetry test 
     -Feasibility of different types of oximetry test including 
sleep and exercise test. 
     -Spot oximetry. 
     - Bed side sleep oximetry with desaturation events 
recording. 
     - Oximetry during exercise test 
      - Should have Pediatric finger probes 
c. The system should measure the following parameters: 
FVC, FEV1, FEV1/FVC%, FEV3, FEV3/FVC%, FEV6, 
FEV1/ FEV6%, PEF,    FEF25%, FEF50%, FEF75%, FEF25-
75%, FET, FIVC, FIV1, FIV1/FIVC%, PIF, VC, IVC, IC, 
ERV, FEV1/VC%, VT, VE, Rf, ti, te, ti/t-tot, VT/ti, MVV 
d. The system should have bi-directional digital turbine 
flow sensor with following specification 
               - Flow range: ±16L/s –  
               - Volume accuracy: ±3% or 50mL 
                - Flow accuracy: ±5% or 200mL/s 
                - Dynamic resistance: <0.5 cmH2O/L/s 
            e. The system should have software with following 
specifications 
- All patient records are shown on simple, single-screen patient 
cards with dynamic    management of all data and graphs.  
              - Can easily be connected with database and hospital 
information system (HIS) 
               - Should have high resolution color display with FSTN 
graphic, 320 × 240 pixel 
                - Should have simple icon based menu on the keyboard.  
                - PRE test and related POST test are shown superimposed. 
                - Should have 6000or more test memory and up to 8 tests on 
screen. 
                 -Feasibilities of selectable languages and predicted values. 
                 - Feasibility of customizable printout format. 
                  - Feasibility of free software up gradation 
                  - Connectivity: USB, RS232 and Bluetooth (optional) 
             f. The system should have power supply from rechargeable 
battery and mains power 
01 


--- Page 12 ---
 Tender for Spirometer                                                                                                         Admn/Tender/112/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-II 
 
TECHNICAL BID 
              g. The system should have semiconductor (0-45°C) 
temperature sensor 
              h. The system should have printer with followings 
characteristics 
                - Should have in built printer 
                - Feasibility of customizable printout options 
                - Paper should be thermal, 4.4 inch (112 mm) width 
             i. The system should have mouthpieces of 1.18 inch (30 mm) 
             j. It should have dimension of 12.2×8.1×2.6 inch (310×205×65 
mm) 
             k. It should have weight 4.2 lbs. (1.9 Kg) or less 
      3.  Spares and consumables 
      Disposable filters (paed.) with mouth pieces – 1000 nos 
4. Environmental factors 
-The unit shall be capable of being stored continuously in 
ambient temperature of 0-50 deg C and relative humidity of 15-
90%. 
- The unit shall be capable of operating continuously in 
ambient temperature of 0-50 deg C and relative humidity of 15-
90% 
        5. Standards, Safety and Training 
           a. Should be certified to be meeting ATS/ERS Standards. 
            b. Should be USFDA/CE approved product.  
            c. Manufacturer should be ISO certified for quality standards. 
d. Comprehensive warranty for 5 years and 5 years CMC after 
warranty period. CMC             rates to be quoted in price bid 
separately. 
            e. Comprehensive onsite training on after installation. 
f. Should have local service facility. The service provider 
should have the necessary equipment recommended by the 
manufacturer to carry out preventive maintenance test as per 
guidelines provided in the service/maintenance manual. 
 
         6. Documentation 
            a. User/Technical/Maintenance manuals to be supplied in 
English. 
          b. Certificate of calibration and inspection. 
           c. List of important spare parts and accessories with their part 
number and costing 
 


