--- Page 10 ---
Tender for High Resolution Manomerty System                                                          Admn/Tender/65/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
High 
Resolution 
Manomerty 
System  
1. System should be supplied with Window 10 operating system based with 
spatiotemporal analysis software for Esophageal and Anorectal 
manometry 
2. System should be supply with 22 Channels or more water perfused high 
resolution manometry system. 
3. System should be upgradable to 36 channel or more 
4. The system should have normal curve and clouse contour plots. 
5. Software should have capability of 3D topography assessment. 
6. Perfusion Pump should be controlled by software or pneumo-hydraulic 
pump 
7. Software should have latest software with Chicago calculator and 
London classifications; Should have provision of upgradation of 
software in future. 
8. System should be supplied with separate software for colonic, antro-
duodenal and small bowel. 
9. Should have facility to fully automatic comprehensive patient filling 
report generation, editing and post processing mode 
10. Should be able to do the hardware test to check all modules like perfusion 
pump, pressure (transducer) module, catheters, Impedances module, 
main module. 
11. Should have capillary tubes and pressure transducer within one unit  
12. System should be builds in one specialized trolley from original OEM 
with calibration stand and buffer solution holder 
13. Available with video manometry for bolus movement with pressure 
recording in one screen.  
14. Should have biofeedback for selected channel to have display of rectal 
and anal pressure in bar diagram 
 
24 Hrs. Portable pH & Impedance Recorder 
15. Available with ambulatory Impedance & pH system with big display and 
with software for acid and nonacid analysis and bolus impedance 
clearance movement 
16. It should have support for dual channel pH manometry 
17. 24 Hrs. portable pH & Impedance recorder system should have internal 
memory /SD card to save patient data. 
 
Consumables:  
18. Should have 22 or more esophageal channels catheter for HRM 
(Quantity - 2Nos.). 
19. Should have 16 or more high resolution anorectal catheters with one 
channel for balloon attachment (Quantity 1 Nos.) 
20. 5/6 Impedance and 2 pH channel catheter (Quantity 25 Nos.) 
21. Buffer solution pH 4 & 7 - 250ml each (Quantity 1 Each)  
22. Calibration Kit – 1 No. include test tubes for calibration for pH catheters. 
23. 5 extra pressure transducer and capillary tube to supplied with system  
24. Electric kettle with 50 bottle of 1 liter’s water for irrigation to supplied 
with system. 
25. Latex balloon for anorectal study 50 nos. to supplied with system. 
26. Filter, flow resistors and connecting tubes- 5 No. (if required) 
 
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for High Resolution Manomerty System                                                          Admn/Tender/65/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27. Latest computer system (i7 or more) with at least 8 GB RAM with LED 
monitor 21 inches or more with 1TB internal memory 
28. Color laser printer, cordless keyboard, optical mouse and UPS for 
computer system 
 
 Quoted HRM system should be latest and advanced model in this 
category. 
 Should comply with IEC standards; Either having CE certificate 
(with four digit notified body number) or US FDA Certificate. 
 Should be able provide demonstration of quoted model for technical 
evaluation and acceptability 
 Any other essential hardware/software/items required to make all 
above things functional should be quoted, otherwise it will be treated 
that same will be supplied free of cost. 


