--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Advanced Electro Surgical Unit 
Admn/Tender/02/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Advanced 
Electro 
Surgical 
Unit  
 An integrated system with 300W output generator and a single 
touch screen for Monopolar, Bi-Polar and Vessel Fusion 
integrated in one generator. 
 The system must be micro-processor controlled which should 
identify the tissue type with a feedback of at least 430000 
times/second on real time basis, and adjust the power to get the 
desired surgical effect on the tissue. 
 System should have 2 monopolar output, 1 Bipolar output and 1 
Vessel Sealing output. 
 The Monopolar output must have Cut, Blend, “Haemostasis with 
division(HWD)”, Soft Coag, Fulgurate and Spray mode.  
 The Bi-Polar must have Low, Standard and Macro mode with 
Auto Bi-Polar control. 
 System should have separate monopolar, bipolar & Vessel 
Sealing foot pedal. 
 The system should have one different Vessel Fusion output 
which should be able to seal artery, veins along with tissue 
bundle up to and including 7mm in diameter, and fused vessels 
should be able to withstand more than 3 times of normal systolic 
blood pressure. 
 The Vessel seal system should be of minimum of 300W at a 
rated load of 20 ohms. 
 The vessel sealing system should have simple audio visual 
feedback display from the generator. This should include : 
 System should have System Error Indicator 
 System should have System status indicators such as Self test, 
ready for use, ready for sealing/seal cycle complete, sealing in 
process 
 Seal cycle incomplete alert,  
 System should have usage limit indicator 
 System should have instruments status indicator. 
 Demonstration of equipment is must. 
 The vessel sealing system should support open and laparoscopic 
hand instruments 
 The vessel sealing hand instruments should have cutting 
independent of sealing. 
 There should be an option of enabling or disabling the 
footswitches. 
 Surgeon should have the facility to control the power from the 
sterile zone with a sliding control 3- button hand switching 
device. 
 The system should have demo mode facility and recall facility to 
recall the last setting used by user.  
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Advanced Electro Surgical Unit 
Admn/Tender/02/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System should have bipolar resection with saline facility in-built 
in the integrated in main unit software without any interfacing 
cable. 
 Selectable range of bipolar cut initiation. 
 Should have six combination of cutting and coagulation settings 
 Should be compatible with Storz and Wolf Resectoscope.  
 System should be compatible of REM polyhesive contact quality 
monitoring  
system. 
 System should have audio-visual alarm facility, to indicate any 
breakage of direct contact between the patient and patient plate. 
 All open surgery including head and neck and thyroid can be 
precisely controlled with very less thermal spread by using 
sealing technique. 
 Integrated seal with choice of cut of 10 mm and 5 mm should be 
there. 
 System should have 5 mm vessel sealing electrical instrument 
with Blunt tip for dissection and faster procedure. 
 Both Footswitch and hand control mode should be available. 
 System should have both reposable open surgical instruments for 
Vessel Sealing purposes. 
 System should be Compatible with Argon Coagulator and smoke 
evacuator 
 System should be US FDA approved. 
 The system should be upgradable and should have RS232, USB, 
Ethernet port for on field software downloads, upgrades and 
serviceability. 
 The system should be compatible with argon machine & smoke 
evacuation system.  
 Monopolar/Bipolar/Vessel sealing footswitch. 
 Three Button Hand switching pencils 
 Contact quality monitoring return electrode 
 Bayonet Bipolar forceps with cord 
 Universal adaptor-1no. 
 Open & laparoscopic 10mm and 5mm seal and cut instrument 
with hand switch activation capability should provide with the 
system -1no each.  
 36mm jaw length, 180 degree rotatable instrument with curved 
blade for large volume tissue- 1 
 5mm multifunctional laparoscopic device for tissue fusion and 
dissection- 1   


