--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Portable Digital X-ray 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Portable 
Digital X-ray GENERAL DESCRIPTION 
High-capacity mobile X-ray machine for application in the intensive 
care, Neonatal emergency wards, and in the operation theatre to enhance 
the speed of diagnosis and eliminate dark room technique. The machine 
should be self-calibrating and should have a microprocessor controlled 
high-frequency generator of atleast 33kW. The unit should be battery-
powered for exposures and also for drives. Low space requirement and 
high maneuverability are extremely essential.  
 
The machine should have integrated TFT touch-screen to enable 
immediate image viewing and image processing (brightness, contrast, 
edge enhancement, etc.) at the system and in the patient’s presence 
immediately following the exposure. The memory should be sufficient 
for storage of up to 2000 exposures which can be recalled afterwards for 
further transfer to the hospital’s IT systems or network drives. The unit 
should be fully DICOM compatible and and should support PACS 
networks. 
  
Input of patient data from the patient database via a DICOM work list or 
manual data input should be possible in case no network is available. 
 
A large number of predefined user programs for a wide variety of 
acquisition situations should be provided to simplify the work flow. 
 
Power connection should be compatible with any standard wall outlet. 
The battery should be able to fully charge in 5-6 hours. 
 
The machine should be have rotating anode tube with a revolving 
collimator and bright light. There should be a tilt angle indicator and 
measuring tape on the tube unit. The machine should have articulated 
fully counterbalanced arm on which tube is fitted.  
There should be a hand brake to stop the unit whenever required. 
The Tube & Generator should be from the same vendor. 
 
Detailed specifications: 
X-ray generator: The X-ray generator should be atleast 33 kW. The 
maximum kV should be 125kV or more. The maximum mAS should be 
300mAS or more. The maximum tube current should be atleast 400mA. 
All the parameters should be adjustable from the control panel. 
 
X-ray tube: The X-ray tube should house the transformer assemble and 
should have a rotating anode tube. The focal spot should be les than 
1mm and anode speed should be atleast 8000 rpm. The tube unit should 
have an attached rotatable collimator unit, It should have also have a tilt 
angle indicator and measuring tape. 
 
Solid State Flat Detector: The Flat detector should be of the size 13x17 
inch or 34 x 42 cm. The detector should be wire less. The detector 
image size should be atleast 2.3K x 2.8 K. The machine should have 
detector storage compartment. The image viewing time after exposure 
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Portable Digital X-ray 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
should not be more than 10 seconds.  
 
Battery: The machine should run fully on battery and the battery charge 
time should not be more than 6 hours from a normal 15A 230 V single 
phase socket. After charging the machine should be capable of giving of 
atleast 100 exposures. The battery should also provide power for the 
motor to move the machine. If the battery is fully drained out the 
machine should be ready to work on direct mains.  
 
Workstation: The machine should have an integrated workstation with 
a TFT monitor of 17-inch.touch screen. The workstation should enable 
to view the image, and provide post processing features, using touch 
screen. The post processing features should include, zoom, contrast and 
brightness adjustment, storage of image with a memory of atleast 2000 
images. The workstation should have organ programming module and 
also soft keyboard for data entry 
 
Connectivity: The machine should be fully network compliant and it 
should be possible to transfer images and patient data from the Hospital 
network using LAN connectivity and wireless LAN. Its should be 
possible to recall earlier images and then transfer them to the network. 
 
Miscellaneous: The machine should have a small footprint and should 
not weigh more than 400kg. It should work on 230V single phase power 
line. It should be easily movable even without the battery drive.  
 
An Independent Workstation with all post processing and printing 
facility should be quoted with storage capability of 10,000 or more 
images with ability to review and report X Rays independent of main 
console. 
 High speed intel Xeon processor based (Z400 workstation) CPU 
(3.0 GHz or higher processing speed) with post processing 
capability 16 GB RAM or more 
 Should have its independent memory and hard disk of atleast 1TB 
 Should have a high-resolution medical grade LCD colour monitor of 
19” or more. 
 Image display matrix should be of high resolution, minimum of 1.5 
K x 1.5 K 
 Post-acquisition image processing, viewing, reprocessing, hard copy 
documentation and onward transmission should be possible. 
 Image processing functions like rotate, mirroring, zoom, move, and 
windowing filter should be possible. There should be facility for 
measurements. 
 Should be connected to a dry chemistry Camera of 500 DPI or more. 
 Multiformat printing should be possible with user selectable options. 
 It should be possible to create alphabetical, date wise and exam 
based, work list 
 Work list should be auto refreshing  
Accessories 
1. Four light weight zero lead aprons of 0.5mm lead equivalence 
with thyroid shield collar. 
 
The machine should be FDA approved and should have CE 
certificate. 


