--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Paedia S./Paedia/18/394/OT/A 
 
Page 19 of 23 
 
Annexure I 
Technical Specification for Portable Color Doppler Ultrasound Unit 
for Paediatric Surgery; 
A state of art fully digital, compact Color Doppler Ultrasound machine is required with 
following technical features: 
1. Unit should be able to give very high image quality with advance technologies like 
compound imaging for better contrast resolution, tissue differentiation and edge 
detection, equivalent to high end cart based systems. Please specify the 
technology.  
2. Unit should be compact, durable & less than 5 kg in weight. 
3. Imaging modes of Real time 2D, Color Doppler, Power Doppler, Pulsed wave 
Doppler, Continuous wave Doppler must be available. 
4. System should have both online (Read) as well as offline(Write) zoom facility  
5. System must have fast start up to scanning in less than 30 seconds from off 
condition, for use in critical care environment and emergency field situations.  
6. System should support transducer technologies like phased array, convex, linear & 
TEE format.  
7. The system should have a broadband architecture with an operating frequency of 
at least 1 to 15 MHz 
8. Cine memory should be available on all operating modes.  
9. The system shall process a dynamic range that is at least 165db. The system must 
display at a maximum depth of 35 cm. 
10. The system must have dedicated calculation packages for cardiac, vascular 
measurements. 
11. The offered unit must have Flat LCD/ TFT monitor of at least 12 inches with Anti-
glare coating and flicker free image. 
12. Alphanumeric soft keys backlit and splash resistant keypad with easy access 
scans controls, facility to sanitize the system keyboard to avoid cross 
contamination.  
13. The system must have the ability to function by AC/DC or battery power with the 
same degree of functionality, the battery life (run time) shall be at least 2 (Two) 
hours, this need to demonstrate.   
14. The system must have archive capability for storage & retrieval of images and 
clips. It should have atleast 2 USB slots, which allow for direct sharing of images 
(JPEG) and clips (AVI) to a PC.  
15. Unit & transducers must be rugged, resistant to breakage & damage on fall/hit so 
as to withstand busy & field situations.  
16. The system must have in-built memory of at least 16 GB for storing Patient data & 
studies. 
17. The system shall support the all DICOM functionality, Storage, Print, and Work 
List, also ready to connect to PACS. 
18. System should have both BIS (Provided BIS standard available)/ European CE and 
US FDA quality certification. 
19. System should have factory default presets of POC applications like Orbital, Lungs, 
TCD, MSK, Nerve, Arterial, Venous etc for quick change of applications. 
20. System should have in-plane Needle visualization software in both Linear & 
Convex probe. 


--- Page 20 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Paedia S./Paedia/18/394/OT/A 
 
Page 20 of 23 
 
21. The needle visualization software should be advanced and should have multiple 
default factory presets to enable needle visualization at different depth i.e. Shallow 
and deep level. 
Transducers & other accessories to be supplied as standard:   
1. 6-13 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency linear array transducer for breast, lungs, 
musculoskeletal, nerve, small parts, arterial, venous 
2.  2-5 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency, curved array transducer for abdominal, l and 
nerve - depth 30cms. 
3.  4-8 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency broadband Phased array transducer for 
Paediatric cardiology, Paediatric  abdominal, neonatal and  Head  applications 
4. 6-13 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency linear array transducer for breast, lungs, 
musculoskeletal nerve, small parts, arterial, venous depth 6 cm foot print 25mm 
with a slot for interventions like cannulation , central line insertion 
5. A trolley must be available to store and/or transport the system. 
6. Triple Transducer Connector with electronic switching facility to toggle between 
transducers. 
Optional Transducers/Software/Items: B/W Thermal printer 
WARRANTY: Main unit and transducers should be covered with comprehensive onsite 
warranty for five years commencing from the date of issue of installation certificate. 
ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENT:  
1. Onsite Product training and education material must be provided post installation 
of the system. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


