--- Page 62 ---
 
 
 
SECTION – VII 
TECHNICAL  SPECIFICATIONS  
Specifications of Electro Physiology (EP) System 
 
1. The System hardware should consist of- 
a. System should be 08 channels EMG, NCV & EP system with individual touch proof & DIN 
connectors. 
b. System should be European CE with 4 digit notified body Or USFDA approved and meet 
international safety standards like IEC and Class IIb. 
c. The amplifier should have USB powered and enabling the amplifier to be connected to any 
PC/Laptop and transfer data through same USB. 
d. There must be 1 trigger IN/OUT socket to connect stimulators of third-party firms. 
e. The system should be supplied with Headphone for AEP, LED Goggle & 17” Pattern simulator for 
VEP. 
f. The system should have wireless control panel for easy operation. 
 
2. (EMG/NCV/EP) 08 Channels specification: 
a. Common mode input impedance > 200 Mohms 
b. Sampling Rate – 40-KHz - 160KHz 
c. A/D convertor – 16-18  bits 
d. High pass Filter from 0.02 Hz to 3 KHz 
e. Low pass Filter from 10 Hz – 10 KHz 
f. CMRR > 100 dB 
g. Noise Level(RMS) < 0.5 µV 
h. Notch filter ; 50Hz, 60 Hz on or off 
i. 
Electric stimulus duration should be 0.05 to 5 mS, Electric stimulus amplitude should be 1 to 100 
mA and Electric stimulus frequency: 0.1 to 100 Hz in Repetitive stimulation. 
 
3. EMG/NCV/EP should have following test modules: - 
a. Motor & Sensory NCV with automatic marking 
b. Motor and Sensory inching  
c. Motor and Sensory collision study  
d. Tremor analysis 
e. F wave with split screen display with automatic marking of F responses showing the Max F, Min F 
and F block values. 
f. H Reflex with Pair study ,Blink Reflex, Sacral Reflex, Bulbocavernous Reflex, T Reflex, Galvanic 
Skin Response, RR-interval 
g. Repetitive Stimulation 
h. Insertional /Spontaneous EMG recording for unlimited duration on hard disk for 10 minutes buffer 
storage. 
i. 
Quantitative EMG test features must be included. 
j. 
EMG replay of stored EMG data from hard disk with audio 
k. Multiple/Single Motor unit Analysis 
l. 
Jitter analysis for single fiber and stimulated single fiber test must be included. 
m. Incremental MUNE & MUNE (MUP Decomposition) 
n. Macro EMG 
o. Short-, middle- and long-latency auditory EP 
p. Short- and long-latency somatosensory EP 


--- Page 63 ---
 
 
q. Auditory stimulation with clicks and tones. 
r. Visual evoked potentials: Pattern reversal, appearance, disappearance VEP (with Fully, quarterly & 
half-quarterly), Flash VEP, Goggle VEP- Flash and pattern reversal 
s. Should have MRCP, CNV, MMN, VEMP tests. 
t. Should have Visual and Auditory P300 programmed tests. 
u. Should have a facility of recording Bereitschafts Potentials for pre-movement cortical activity and 
motor planning, including automatic analysis of late BP, early BP & peak BP.   
v. Should have tools like averaging, rectifying, smoothing, subtraction, and summation of recorded BP 
waveforms to clear out the noise. 
 
4. EMG/NCV/EP Software should have following features:- 
a. Automatic rapid report generation with unlimited user templates 
b. Facility of comparing patient data with normative data & to flag abnormal values automatically. 
c. Supplied with HD-USB camera and software with facility to record Video of the patient while doing 
any test specially Pattern VEP, this option is useful to watch a patient’s eyes focusing on the fixation 
point, later on video frame can be copied to an exam report, to an additional information window or 
to a file. 
d. The Video Capture Module for Lab Chart is used for simultaneous recording and synchronization of 
a digital video and a Lab Chart data file. 
e. Report generation to be customizable and in MS word format. 
f. Must be operating on Windows 10. 
g. Should have Microsoft SQL-server, MDB, and My’s-sql-server database software. 
h. Facility of including the waveform & numerical data as per user requirement in patient report. 
i. 
Automatic export feature in the software to save the report in any drive or networked computer for 
future record.  
j. 
Traces can be export to EDF, BDF, text & XML format for analysis in 3rd party software. 
k. Should have facility of customized protocols for all tests. 
l. 
Provision for hard copy output of recordings on a laser printer of 600 dpi resolution. 
m. Dedicated control panel can function via Bluetooth & USB interface both. 
n. Possibility to connect a Magnetic stimulator in future and able to perform the research test protocols 
in-built in the EMG software like CMCT, Triple stimulation, Silent period, IHI etc. 
o. Possibility to upgrade it to ERG (Electroretinograpghy) studies in future with Genzfield & Penlight 
stimulators within the same software. 
 
5. Set of EMG electrodes and stimulators to be supplied along with system:- 
a. Surface electrode – 4 pairs. 
b. Stimulating bar electrode with replaceable steel and felt stimulation pads – 2 no. 
c. Ring electrode – 2 pair. 
d. Ground electrode with cable (paediatric)-2 no. 
e. Ground electrode with cable (adult)-2 no. 
f. Disposable concentric needle electrode – 25 pcs. 
g. Adapter for needle electrode connection – 1 no. 
h. Disposable surface electrode- (set of 100 pcs.) 
i. 
Adapter for disposable electrodes connection with Alligator clip (20 cm) – 2 pcs. 
j. 
Gold plated cup electrode – 20 pcs. 
k. Jumper Electrode (Pup-jack linker) – 8 pcs. 
l. 
Electrical Handheld stimulator-2 no. 
m. Visual stimulator (LED goggles)-2 no. 
n. 17” TFT monitor for VEP-1 no. 
o. Auditory stimulator (headphones)-1 no. 
 


--- Page 64 ---
 
 
6. The system should be supplied with: 
a. (Branded Laptop) Intel Core i7 processor with 8GB RAM, network card, multimedia speakers, 
mouse, keyboard, minimum 1TB hard disk for storing 
b. Laser Printer (B/W) 
c. Movable Trolley. 
d. User manual 
 
7. Safety and Electromagnetic Compatibility:- 
a. System should be European CE with 4 digit notified body Or USFDA approved and meet 
international safety standards like IEC and Class IIb. 
b. Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) is provided by IEC 60601-1-2:2007 requirements Fulfilment. 
c. The digital system is intended for operation in electromagnetic environment. As for safety, the digital 
system satisfies IEC 60601-1:1988 + A1:1991 + A2:1995, IEC 60601-1-1:2000 and IEC 60601-2-
40:1998 requirements. 
d. The electronic unit is supplied by regulated power supply through USB interface, it has double 
isolation and BF type work parts according to IEC 60601-1. 
 
 


