--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Digital Fundus Camera (Mydriatic & Non Mydriatic)                               Admn/Tender/116/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
 The Arbitration shall be held in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation 
Act, 1996 and the venue of arbitration shall be at Jodhpur. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be 
final and binding on both the partied. 
 
 Force Majeure: Any delay due to Force Majeure will not be attributable to the supplier. 
 
 
Administrative Officer 
AIIMS, Jodhpur 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Digital 
Fundus 
Camera 
(Mydriatic 
& Non 
Mydriatic) 
1. Field Angle: 45 Degree and 30 degree. 
2. Capture Color, red- free and red pictures and pictures of the anterior 
segment, as well as Fluorescent angiography .Live visualization, 
Automatic multi image montage, stereo mode for 3D images. 
3. Filters FA +ICGA exciter and barrier filters, Filter for green and Blue 
images, filter for fundus auto fluorescence, UV/IR barrier filter. 
4. Capture Sequence 1.5……………..2 seconds (depends on flash 
energy)  
5. Compensation for Ametropia  +35D ………..-35 D , continues  
6. Pupil diameter            ≥4.0 mm 
     ≥3.3 mm (Degree small pupil mode ) 
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Digital Fundus Camera (Mydriatic & Non Mydriatic)                               Admn/Tender/116/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-II 
 
TECHNICAL BID 
 
Name of Firm/Contractor/Supplier 
  
 
Complete Address &  
Telephone No. 
 
  
 
Name of Proprietor/Partner/Managing 
Director/Director. 
 
 
Phone No:- 
 
 
7. Capture Sensor  : High resolution 3CCD medical grade camera 
(Integrated ) 
8. Fixation Internal: External & internal various programmed sequence 
or freely position able special attention node. 
9. Flash Energy  : Xenon Flash Lamp , 22 flash levels  
10. Database:  Patient information and image with field angle, FA time, 
R/L Recognition and date visit. 
11. Computer  :  for archiving facility is a must with options of                    
DVD + CD  
12. Suitable ON Line UPS with one hour backup to be provided. 
13. All hidden cost and maintenance cost should be clarified .List of all 
consumables and their cost should be specified  
14. The system should be USFDA or European CE approved model. 


