--- Page 8 ---
 
Page 8 of 19  (T. No.44/CNC/Cardiac Biochemistry /2022-2023/St.) 
 
 
23. LIST OF REQUIREMENTS 

24. 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS: 
 
 
 
******* 
 
Specification  of HPLC ECD Detector 
1) ECD detector compatible with the existing Agilent Infinity II High Performance 
liquid chromatography system (Up gradation of available system).  
2) System should be sensitive and selective to detect analyte (electroactive) using an 
electrochemical detection (ECD) in femtogram levels using very low sample volume. 
3) System should  eliminates matrix interferences and has low cost of operation in the 
measurement of neurotransmitters, antibiotics and their by-products, contaminants in 
drugs, vitamins, polyphenols, thiols, amino acids and other metabolities in urine or 
plasma as well as carbohydrates, advanced glycated end products from different 
origin. 
4) Operating modes:  DC, Pulse and Scan. 
5) High Sensitivity: Good quality electronics and printed circuit boards should be used 
throughout the entire instrument, highly stable Faraday-shielded oven compartment 
with a temperature stability of 0.1 °C,  with oven temperatre of +7°C above ambient 
to 60°C, accuracy 0.5°C, the oven compartment should be able to accommodates 
several HPLC columns and flow cells. 
6) Advanced Digital Filter (ADF) for best S/N ratio: The ADF algorithm optimized for 
suppressing noise originating from HPLC and electrochemical flow cells. Should 
pass signals with a frequency lower than a selected cut-off frequency 
(chromatographic peaks) and attenuates higher frequencies (i.e. noise reduction)-  0.5 
- 0.001 Hz in 1, 2, 5 increments. 
7) Sensors: Upto 3 flow cells for optimal performance: wall-jet flow cell which provides 
highest sensitivity in terms of S/N ratio and detection of small volume and low 
concentrated samples. 
8) Variety of working electrode materials for optimal selectivity and varied 
electrochemical application including glassy carbon (GC), Au, Ag, Pt, BDD (Boron 
doped Diamond) etc. 
9) The electronic noise generated by detector must be lower than the chemical noise. 
The total noise value should be   ≤ 2 pA with a dummy cell (load of 300 MΩ/0.5 μF). 


--- Page 9 ---
 
Page 9 of 19  (T. No.44/CNC/Cardiac Biochemistry /2022-2023/St.) 
 
10) Embedded software:  Flash technology or any equivalent or advanced technology, 
upgradeable via PC (USB).  
11) PC control: Parametric control and data-acquisition via LAN port (USB service port) 
12) Maximum current compensation range: 10 nA - 200 μA in 1, 2, 5 increments 
13) Electrochemical Potential range (Ec) :  -2.50 V to + 2.50V with 10 mV increments 
14) Analog Output (DAC): -1 to +1 V full scale (via 16-bit D/A converter) 
15) Analog Output : (I/E) -2.5 to +2.5 V full scale (unprocessed I/E converter signal) 
16) Auto Zero: triggered by keyboard, rear panel TTL, or remote PC control (LAN) 
17) Should include an autosampler (designed for use with modules of the Agilent 1200 
Infinity Series) for precision and ease of running multiple samples. Two sets of 16GB 
USB drive to be provided with system. 
18) Service and Training: Engineer shall have to conduct on-site installation, 
commissioning and training. Certification complying to any national and/or 
international standards e.g. ISO, CE, US/FDA etc. 
19) Onsite demonstration of equipment and it’s all features is must for technically 
qualification of the instrument. Prebid meeting may be held to discuss the concerns 
of the participating firms.  
20) Warranty: Comprehensive guarantee for Five years for all parts and labour. All 
software updates for a period of 5 years to be provided free of cost. CMC should be 
unconditional and include all accessories including third party items (e.g. UPS+ 
computer system, cables, probes, plastic items etc.). Comprehensive Guarantee for 
parts (plastic/metal) and labour from year 6 to 10 will also need to be quoted in the 
price separately and will be taken into account (added in the price bid) while 
calculating the Final Price. If due to some reason company is not able to repair the 
equipment, the equipment of similar specification and same throughput should be 
installed free of cost at the same terms and conditions till the 10 year period is 
completed. 
21) Physical demonstration of quoted model/equipment would be mandatory at AIIMS 
premises within 7 days prior notice/intimation, failing which, the right will be 
reserved with TSEC to reject bid out rightly without any further clarification. 
 



