--- Page 11 ---
 Tender for  Neonatal Ventilator                                                                                         Admn/Tender/106/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Neonatal 
Ventilator 
1. The ventilator should be microprocessor controlled designed 
for neonatal use with possibility to upgrade with additional 
features. 
2. Continues flow, pressure limited, time cycled ventilator deign 
3. Ventilator modes: should have following modes available in 
the unit 
a) IMV/IPPV 
b) CPAP including non-invasive ventilation 
c) SIMV, SIPPV/Assist-control 
d) High frequency oscillatory ventilation which is 
oscillating diaphragm based 
e) Volume targeted/guarantee mode of ventilation with 
ability to deliver and monitor tidal volume as low as 1-
2 ml  (Range 2 ml to 50 ml) 
f) Pressure support mode of ventilation 
g) Apnoea back-up ventilation 
4. Should have integrated high resolution LCD screen minimum 
12” color display with touch screen facility for real-time 
display of scalar (Pressure, Flow and Volume against time) and 
loop (Pressure-volume, volume-flow and pressure-flow). 
Graphic display of at least 3 waveforms together out of choice 
of flow, volume and pressure versus time with a facility to 
freeze these waveforms. Facility for loops together with a 
facility to freeze the same 
5. Should have graphical as well as tabular trend facility of data 
up to 24 Hrs 
6. Digital display of FiO2, peak pressure, mean airway pressure, 
CPAP/PEEP, Expiratory tidal volume, expiratory minute 
volume, total frequency, spontaneous frequency, lung function 
monitoring including compliance, resistance, lung distention 
coefficient, (C20/C), Lung time constant, Rate volume ratio 
etc.  
7. Should have built-in logbook for recording events like various 
alarms 
8. Integrated 
monitoring: Integrated 
volume 
and 
pressure 
monitoring i.e. monitoring of PEEP Pmax, Pmean and VT, 
VTspont, MV and MVleak. The volume monitoring should 
have NTPD to BTPS correction.  
9.  Monitoring of I:E, frequency and Spontaneous Frequency. 
10. Settings range: 
a) Trigger Flow/ volume, leak adapted 
b) PIP  10 to 80 cm H2O 
c) PEEP/ CPAP 0 to 25mbar 
d) I:E ratio1:0 to 1:10 
e) Insp. Time 0.1 to 2 Sec 
f) Exp. Time 0.2 to 30 sec 
g) Frequency Up to 200 BPM 
h) Base Flow (VIVE) 1 to 30 LPM 
i) Synchronization Patient synchronization with adjustable 
flow trigger 
j) High frequency amplitude 1-100% 
k) Integrated blender for Oxygen 21% to 100% 
05 


--- Page 12 ---
 Tender for  Neonatal Ventilator                                                                                         Admn/Tender/106/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
l) Integrated nebulization facility 
m) Integrated monitoring of FiO2 
11. Monitoring of flow: At the Y piece with facility to activate or 
deactivate it  
12. Should measure parameters  in HFOV such as DCO2, VtHF,  
MVim and VTim 
13. Ventilator  should have following  features in  Pressure 
Support/ Volume Guarantee:  
a) It should be possible to give leakage adapted inspiratory 
trigger during pressure support to spontaneously breathing 
patients with a set volume guarantee. 
b) Volume guarantee should be regulated with lowest possible 
airway pressure within a set PIP. 
c) It should be possible to adjust the Volume Guarantee 
manually as per patient requirement  
14. Audiovisual alarms with advisory on-screen message: MV 
high/Low, Apnea, tube obstruction, FiO2 high/low high PIP, 
low PEEP/CPAP, fail to cycle, gas supply low, power failure, 
ventilator inoperative, alarm log book 
15. The ventilator should have automatic compensation for leakage 
and should monitor and display leakages 
16. The ventilator should show trends of important parameters viz. 
C,R, FiO2, MAP etc. for evaluation of patient improvement  
17. Ventilator should be US FDA and European CE approved 
product and should submit the respective certificate of US 
FDA and European CE 
18. Ventilator should be supplied with Good quality medical air 
compressor (European CE marked)  
19. The Servo Controlled Heated wire Humidifier should be 
supplied along with Reusable patient circuit. The humidifier 
must be USFDA approved   
20. Battery back-up (at least 30 minutes) Battery should be 
integrated and should provide backup to both ventilator & Air 
compressor 
21. Should be supplied with ultrasonic nebulizer which should 
have capability to deliver particle size of < 3 micron and to be 
used in both off and on line with ventilator. 
22. Training CD/DVD 
23. List of consumables expected to be used in one year should be 
provided and quoted separately. Prices so quoted to be frozen 
for 5 years 
24. The department will like to have a live demonstration of the 
equipment 
25. Instruction manual  to be supplied with the quotation 
26. Company should certify that model quoted is latest and not 
obsolete, and spares are available for minimum 5 years after 
warranty.  
27. Should have permanent Electronic O2 Sensor .Company will 
provide life time warranty on Oxygen  sensor 
28. Quoted firm should have a functional local service setup for 
after sales service 
29. Ventilator should have Up gradation facility with EtCO2  
30. Machine should have facility to set exp flow different than 
inspiratory flow to help in ETCO2  flush 
31. Scope of supply with each ventilator 
a) Ventilator on trolley with wheels and brake facility 


--- Page 13 ---
 Tender for  Neonatal Ventilator                                                                                         Admn/Tender/106/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b) Integral medical air compressor 
c) Humidifier: Autoclavable humidifier chamber (2 with each 
ventilator)  
d) Circuit support arm 
e) 2 hose sets for conventional reusable  neonatal ventilation 
circuit 
f) 5 hose sets of disposable  conventional neonatal ventilation 
circuit 
g) 1 hose set for reusable HF ventilation 
h) Bacterial filters 
i) Flow sensors (20 sets with each ventilator) 
j) Oxygen cell 
k) Oxygen connecting hose 
l) Air connecting hose 
m) Test lung 
n) Heater wire (3 each) 
o) Temperature probe (3 each) 
p) Expiratory valve (2 with each) 
q) Nasal interface (3 in number) with nasal mask (4 each of 
all sizes) and nasal prongs (4 each of all sizes) and bonnet 
(5 each of only preterm size) with each ventilator. 
32. The ventilator should have following options  
a) RS 232C port for data transfer and software compatible 
with windows   
b) Communication interface with Laptop 
c) PC software for archiving and analysis 
d) Provision for future software/ hardware upgrades should be 
available 
33. Items covered under warranty/CMC 
a) Prices of all consumables  should be quoted separately 
and frozen for the period including warranty and CMC  
34. Should have local service facility and should have the 
necessary equipment to carry out preventive maintenance test  
35. Onsite physical demonstration and training of the equipment to 
all the end users with all  the requested facilities will be 
mandatory 
36. Availability of spares for at least eight years after date of 
installation 
37. Original literature, and not the photocopy, to be supplied with 
the quotation 
38. Company should certify that model quoted is latest and not 
obsolete, and spares are available for minimum 6 years after 
warranty.  
39. Machine should have automatic calibration for O2 sensor 
Humidifier should also be automated servo controlled and should be 
US FDA certified 


