--- Page 45 ---
47 
 
SECTION – VII 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION AND GENERAL POINTS 
 
 
 
Specifications for “CTVS High End ICU Monitor with integrated automated charging System . 02no. 
 
 
1. Modular OT/ICU monitoring system for Adult, Pediatric and Neonatal applications with facility of freely 
exchangeable modules. Should be user friendly be full touch screen operation. 
2. Each main bedside monitor must be supplied with transport module having an inbuilt full touch display of a 
minimum of 5 inches that can be used for transfer of connected parameters (ECG, SpO2, NIBP, three IBP, temp & 
EtCO2) on patient without disconnecting cables/accessories to another bedside monitor. The transport module should 
have its own battery backup of at least 5 hours. The transport monitor should be light weight and shock proof for 
drops upto a height of 3 feet from ground. 
3. It should be capable of monitoring ECG, Three invasive blood pressures, non-invasive blood pressure, oxygen 
saturation (SpO2), perfusion index, dual temperature, end-tidal carbon dioxide (mainstream for both intubated and 
non-intubated patients) and continuous cardiac output (minimally invasive/non-invasive method) and BIS. 
4. Should display latest trend graph of at least 30 minutes on main screen along with real- time waveform and numerical 
values. 
5. The color of each individual curve should be freely selectable. 
6. Trend data and full disclosure of waveforms should be 72hours or more. 
7. The monitor should have facility to enlarge numeric display for distance viewing with multiple layouts of screen. 
8. Monitors should have facility to store and display last 72 hours or more. 
9. Should have a facility to deactivate all the alarms if necessary. 
10. It should have facility to display real time data and alarms of other bedside monitors. 
11. The monitor should have 18-20 inch color TFT/LCD display. 
12. The monitor should have display of 15 or more curves at a given time. The operator should be able to freeze the 
waveform at will. 
13. Main monitor must be supplied with high quality UPS/inbuilt battery system for providing uninterrupted power 
backup for 30 min at least. 
14. Should be upgradeable to NMT and EEG. 
 
ECG monitoring essential specification: 
 
1. Available leads: I, II, III, V, aVR, aVL, aVF, with facility for recording 5/6 lead ECG. 
2. Should display at least two or more selected leads at a time. 
3. Accuracy of + 2 beat/min. 
4. Should efficiently filter out the ESU disturbances and defibrillation protection. 
5. Should have ST segment analysis with ST map review for each ECG lead. 
6. Should have arrhythmia monitoring facility for up to 25 arrhythmias types. It should store and display the number of 
arrhythmias occurred in last 72 hours with ECG segment. 
7. Should have user selectable alarms. 
 
Pulse Oximeter (SpO2): 
 
1. Should provide a digital value of the arterial oxygen saturation as well as diagnostic plethysmography pulse 
waveform, perfusion index display. 
2. Measurement range 0% to 100% +/-2% (80-100%) accuracy. 
3. User selectable upper and lower alarm limits. 
4. Should have to work well in low perfusion and motion artifacts. 
5. Should provide the clinical data/reports in support for the accuracy of SPO2 in low perfusion. 
 
EtCO2 monitoring  
1. Should use infrared absorption technique. 
2. Mode: Mainstream 
3. Should be able to use on both intubated and non-intubated patients. 
4. Range EtCO2: 0-99 mm Hg. 


--- Page 46 ---
48 
 
5. Accuracy: + 2 mmHg at normal readings. 
6. Should have an apnea alarm. 
 
Respiration: 
 
1. Range 0-150 breaths/min 
2. Accuracy: + 2 breaths/min 
3. Should have an apnea alarm. 
4. Display sweep speeds 6.25, 12.5 and 25 mm/sec, measured by the same ECG lead. 
 
Invasive pressure monitoring: 
 
1. Should have the ability to measure and display minimum three or more invasive pressure value with waveforms 
simultaneously. 
2. Should have facility to measure and display pulse pressure variation from arterial pressure waveform. 
3. User selectable upper and lower alarm limits. 
4. Measuring range: 0 to 300 mm Hg. 
5. Accuracy: +1 mmHg 
 
Non-Invasive blood pressure (NIBP) monitoring: 
 
1. Measurement method: - Linear Inflation 
2. Range: 0-280 mm Hg for adults and 0-200 pediatric. 
3. Manual, auto and time limited with user selectable automatic time intervals, stat mode. It should provide over pressure 
protection. 
4. Accuracy: ± 3 mmHg 
 
Continuous Cardiac Output monitoring  
1. Should have technology to measure noninvasive as well as invasive continuous cardiac output monitoring. 
2. Should provide CO, CI, SV, SVI, SVR & SVRI if CVP is measured simultaneously.  
3. It should have facility of measuring these parameters via all of the following, with dedicated transducers if need be: 
a. Without use of invasive arterial line 
b. With use of invasive arterial line 
c. With use of pulmonary artery catheter using thermodilution method 
4.  If any special disposables like catheters, sensors or transducers required which is unique for monitoring CO and other 
derived parameters, 10 number of the same should be supplied with each CO module supplied at the time of 
installation. 
 
 
  
BIS Module – 1 No; With adult, child electrodes -2nos with each module 
 
Others: 
 
1. Monitoring system should be upgradeable to Integrated automated charting system of proven track record in India, so   
that   complete   ICU   equipment’s data such as syringe pumps, ventilators, monitors etc. can be integrated for 
various usage at one point.  
2. Monitor should be HL7 complaint and able to connect to hospital information system. 
3. Monitor should be IT enabled for single point access to web-based applications (like Cath Lab, X- ray, DICOM, HIS. 
Should give direct access to Web-based applications. 
4. Monitor should support transfer of patient data with use of USB stick. 
5. The unit should be US FDA approved or European CE approved product or BIS approved product. 
6. All essential accessories required should be supplied for standard function working. 
7. Each monitor to be supplied with following accessories. 
a. ECG-5 lead set cable – 01 No. 
b. ECG extension trunk cord – 01 No. 
c. SpO2 probe: 
i. 
For adult finger – 2 No. 
ii. 
For neonatal finger- 2 No 


--- Page 47 ---
49 
 
d. NIBP cuff: Adult size – 1No., pediatric – 1 No. Neonatal- 1 No 
e. SpO2 interface cable and NIBP hose pipe – 01 each. 
f. 
Temperatures probes – Skin – 02 No.; Nasal/Rectal-2 No 
g. EtCO2 module – Mainstream Sensor with adult /pediatrics disposable airway adapter 5 no. 
Face mask for checking EtCO2 in adult/pediatric-2  
h. Should provide at least 3 reusable interface cable for IBP monitoring and at least 10 Nos. disposable 
transducers. 
i. 
Cardiac output –01 set of complete accessories for invasive monitoring with each monitor system; disposable 
sensor/catheter 10 nos. should be supplied with each module. 
j. 
One set of Accessory for Noninvasive continuous cardiac output with 2 monitors 
k. BIS– 01 set of accessories with each module 
l. 
Wall mount – 1number 
m. UPS 
 
 
Note: - 
1. Prices should be quoted with 5-year warranty and further 5-year CMC must be quoted. 
2. Price of consumables and accessories to be frozen for a minimum of 10 years and must be uploaded in separate PDF 
while bidding. Same shall be considered for L1 evaluation. 
3. The bidder must ensure availability of all consumables (in current or upgraded form) for a period of minimum 10 years. 
4. Demonstration of equipment may be requested at AIIMS Raebareli, Raebareli as part of technical evaluation. 
5. Bidder must provide a brochure of their equipment along with the bid, with a table showing whether they comply with all 
technical specifications. 
6. The bidder must submit an affidavit that they are not debarred by the Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Health & 
Family Welfare or any other relevant Department. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


