--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Laparoscopic Simulator                                                                                       Admn/Tender/124/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Laparoscopic 
Simulator 
1. The system should be fully computerised and interactive. 
2. PC and simulation processor 
3. 24" flat touch screen 
4. Foot switch for electrosurgical coagulation 
5. High performance force feedback  
6. Five (5) degrees of freedom 
    
7. High performance and precision 
8. Original adapted instrument handles (graspers) 
9. Interchangeable suturing handles with suturing module 
10. The system should be able to provide comprehensive training in 
the field of laparoscopic surgery. 
11. The system should feature built in tools for training group and 
individual trainee. 
12. The system should have all parameters to evaluate trainee. 
13. preferably a web based simulator curricula management 
system, providing the optimal solution for managing training, 
reporting and education 
14. The system should have the following modules : 
 Basic eye hand co-ordination skills 
 Basic Laparoscopic Skills 
 Tissue grasping, dissection and coagulation skills 
 Basic and advanced suturing skills 
 Trainee evaluation module 
A. Lap.  Cholecystectomy  
B. Lap.  Appendectomy 
C. Lap. Intracorporial suturing and GI anastomosis.  
D. Lap. Nephrectomy 
E. Lap. Bariratric Procedure (Lap. Banding /Sleeve gastrectomy/ 
Bypass) 
F. Lap. Hysterectomy 
G. Vaginal vault suturing/ Myoma suturing.  
H. Salpingectomy/ Salpingostomy  
I. VATS/ Lobactomy  
J. APR/LAR/Right 
Hemicolectomy/ 
Left 
Hemicolectomy/ 
Sigmoidectomy.  
K. Basic skill modules/ Fundamental task include Task traning 
and camera training.  
L. Lap. Hernioplasty / Herniotomy.  
M. Any other module which is available with the vendor 
/Manufacturer.  
All Supplied module should be upgradable (Free of cost) for a 
period of 5 years.  
Rate should be quoted (per Module) for future upgradation of new 
module.   
15. The system should have options of selecting various hand 
instruments. 
16. The system should have energy sources like harmonic and 
diathermy. 
17. The system processing unit should be latest generation. 
18. The system should be CE certified. 
19. 3D anatomical maps should be available on certain modules. 
20. Short video of real-life procedures for better understanding of the 
trainee. 
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Laparoscopic Simulator                                                                                       Admn/Tender/124/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21. Custom building of training modules for learners of all levels. 
22. Viewing and exporting of performances reports facilitates 
learning, analysis of training effect, showing the learning curve, 
research and future certification. 
23. Technical Skills Reporting and Assessment : 
a) Time and economy of movements. 
b) Safety and electrosurgical dissection. 
c) Procedural errors. 
d) Procedure specific checklist items relating to knowledge of 
procedures, handling of instruments and many more. 


