--- Page 25 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/RT/CTVS/ECMO/550/2020-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 25 
 
 
 
Specification of Portable ECMO 
1. Centrifugal Pump (Console with its Accessories) 
a) Should work on power supply 100 V to 240 V, 50Hz to 60 Hz and 11V to 28 V DC 
b) Should generate 0 to 50000 RPM 
c) Should be able to flow 0.1 to 9.99 Litres per minute. 
d) Should have compact, lightweight console (approx. 10 kg weight) 
e) Should have LCD display screen (5 .5” -7”) 
f) Should display following parameters or should provide additional monitor for monitoring 
-04 no’s of External Pressures (Measuring Range – 50 to 900 mm Hg) 
-03 no’s of Internal Pressures (Measuring Range – 50 to 900 mm Hg) 
-02 no’s of External Temperatures (Measuring Range – 10 to 45oC) 
-02 no’s of Internal Temperatures (Measuring Range – 10 to 45oC) 
-01 no Venous Blood Oxygen Saturation (SvO2) (measuring range – 40 to 100%) 
-01 no Hemoglobin (Measuring Range 05 to 15 gm/d) 
-01 no Hematocrit (Measuring range 15 to 50%) 
-01 no flow sensor with integrated Bubble sensor which measures Blood Flow Rate and Bubbles 
respectively 
-01 no Bubble sensor measuring Bubbles in the Blood Stream 
g)  Portable Emergency Hand Crank 
h) Back Flow Prevention mode (Zero Flow Mode) 
i) Recording of Data, I the unit (interval – 3 sec’s to 10 mins) and retrieval of the same into a USB memory 
stick or into a Computer. 
j) 03 no’s of resettable Clock Timers.  
k) 01 no of Countdown Timer 
l) 03 modes of Application 
-Operating Room mode 
-Intensive Care Unit mode 
-Transport mode 
m)  03 modes of Control 
-LPM mode 
-RPM mode 
-Night mode 
n) Battery Backup 90 mins. 
o) 01 no. connection for alarm output (Ward Call) 
p) 01 no. connection for Ethernet Cable 
q) 01 no. connection for External Drive 
r) 01 no. connection for ECG signal 
s) Should have Road and Air Transport Approval 
2. Heating Unit with its accessories 
a) Temperature range setting form 33oC to 39oC 
b) Digital display for set temperature and outlet temperature 
c) Compact & light weight console (9 kg weight) 
d) To work on power supply 230 V, 50 Hz 
e) Should generate 03 to 05 LPM, 0.34 bar pressures 
f) Water Capacity 0.7 to 1.4 Ltrs. 
g) Heat resistant Tubings with Hansen Coupling for quick connection  
3. Sprinter Cart 


--- Page 26 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/RT/CTVS/ECMO/550/2020-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 26 
 
a) Advanced card design maximizing safety and convenience to move compete anywhere 
b) Infusion pole mast (Height adjustable) 
c) Gas Cylinder holder for better portability  
4. Air-Oxygen Blender: 
a) Mechanical air oxygen blender with hoses 
5. Disposables: 
Kit should include or should be provided with 
a) Hollow fiber Diffusion membrane oxygenator (Poly Methyl Pentene Fiber) with 30 day CE certification 
for usage 
b) Centrifugal Pump Head or any rotary pump 
c) PVC tubing which make a circuit with 30 days CE certification of usage 
d) Tip to tip Bioline Coating (Albumin + Heparin) or any Coating 
e) Oxygenator unit includes a hollow fiber Heat Exchanger with very less pressure drop 
f) Circuit minimized to its basic minimum components.  
g) De-airing membrane in oxygenator 
h) Integrated Sensors for Pressures (Venous Arterial and Internal) and Temperature (Arterial and Venous) 
monitoring.  
i) Should have integrated Measuring Cell for Venous probe to measure Venous Oxygen saturation (SvO2), 
Hemoglobin, Hematocrit and Venous Temperature 
6. The quoted price should include the cost of the basic unit   and cost of five set of disposable kit.  (four full 
kit for use in an adult patient + one full kit for use in Paediatric patient) 
7. Rates of the chargeable accessories should be quoted for the total period 5 years and should be frozen for 
that duration. 
8. Five set of disposables should be supplied with machine for smooth starting of ECMO program.   
 
 
General Conditions applicable to each tendered equipment: 
 
(i) 
There would be guarantee (with spares) for five years and additional warranty for five years. 
(ii) 
The product should be quoted with all the accessories. The price of all the accessories should also be 
quoted separately.  
(iii) 
The price of major spares parts should be quoted separately. The price would be fixed for the warranty 
period.  
(iv) 
The product or its earlier model should have been marketed in international market for at least 4 years. 
(v) 
If the equipment is software based, and new software is introduced within five years, the up gradation 
will be provided free of cost. 
(vi) 
The department may ask for demonstration of actual quoted product or even for trial use. 
(vii) 
If necessary, training of the personnel for the use of the equipment will be provided by the company 
vendor. 
9. Compliance Statement: The vendor must provide, in tabular form a comparative chart of the required 
technical specification and technical specification of the quoted product. The vendor must give the relevant 
page number and paragraph number, in their literature regarding that technical information in the technical 
bid. Merely stating “complies” or meets requirement” will lead to assumption that the quoted product does 
not have the required feature. 
10. We need FDA/CE/BIS approval. 
 
 
 
 


