--- Page 28 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ Obs & Gynae/ 214(III)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 28 
 
 
DICOM compatible fully digital, compact portable Colour Doppler Ultrasound machine 
is required with the following technical features: 
 
1. The unit should be compact, lightweight and portable. Weight should not exceed 8kg excluding 
cart and accessories.  
2. It should be suitable for Gynecology, Obstetrics, abdominal, small parts and vascular 
applications in adults and pediatric patients.  
3. Multiple preloaded as well as user configurable application presets should be available.  
4. Transducers: Three (1) Convex 5-2 MHz for abdominal imaging, (2) Linear 5-12 MHz for intra-
op imaging (3) Endocavitory 8-5 MHz for transvaginal and transrectal ultrasonography and end 
firing biopsy-one each.  
5. All transducers should be lightweight digital phased array broadband type transducers with at 
least 128 elements.  
6. Detachable needle guide should be available with convex and endocavitory probes.  
7. Imaging modes of Real time 2D, Colour Doppler, Pulsed wave Doppler, Power (energy) Doppler and 
triplex Doppler should be available.  
8. Advanced features such as tissue harmonic imaging with contrast media and beam forming 
technology should be quoted as standard.  
9.  Controls for 2D mode: Total gain, depth, TCG, dynamic range, acoustic power output, number for 
position of focus.  
10.  Controls for Colour Doppler: PRF, colour gain, position and size of ROI, steering of ROI, colour maps 
and colour invert.  
11.  Controls for pulsed Doppler: variable sample volume size from 1 to 5mm or more, steer, PRF, 
baseline,gain angle correction, spectral invert, duplex/triplex on/off  
12.  Measurements for 2D mode: Multiple distances, area and volume.  
13.  Measurements for Doppler modes: Stenosis quantification in percentage, diameter, PSV, EDV, 
mean,PI, RI, floor volume, acceleration time and index. Automatic and manual measurements and 
display of pulsed Doppler Calculations should be possible.  
14.  Cineloop memory of minimum 30 seconds on all modes.  
15.  Flat LCD/TFT monitor of 10 inches or more.  
16.  Alphanumeric soft keys keyboard with easy access scans controls  
17.  Onboard storage of at least 1000 images. Storage in JPEG and AVI format should be possible.  
18.  A. Sorting of data base with patient name and date should be possible.  
 B.  All standard measurements, calculations & report formats should be available for vascular, 
Gynae & Obs and abdomen applications.  
19. . USB port connectivity to printer or computer.  
20. . Facility for storage on CDR/DVD should be available. Data should be transferable through the 
network to any other workstation.  
21. Unit should be compatible with 200-240V, 50 Hz with Indian power requirement.  
22. In built battery backup for at least 60 minutes use should be available.  
23. The unit should be compatible with DICOM3 or more and it should be possible to connect to the 
Hospital network through suitable LAN port. It will be the responsibility of the supplier to ensure 
hassle free networking as and when requested.  
24.  Essential accessories: Thermal colour printer, UPS, mobile cart with transducer holder, jelly bottle 
holder and space for printer.  
25.  Paper and cartridges for 1000 image printouts should be provided.  
26.  The unit should be light weight and sturdy.  
27.  The unit offered in the tender will require technical demonstration.  


--- Page 29 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ Obs & Gynae/ 214(III)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 29 
 
28. List of users of unit offered should be enclosed along with the tender. The list should not contain 
names of users of units other than the one quoted.  
29. Price of the main unit and accessories to be quoted separately.  
30.  Warranty: The unit, transducers and all accessories should be covered with comprehensive onsite 
warranty  
31. Suitable LASER colour printer should be provided. (Separate price to be quoted).  
32. The system to be USFDA or European CE approved.  
33. The bidder is expected to demonstrate the system when requested. However the necessary 
documents should have been submitted with the technical bid.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


