--- Page 17 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Paedia S./17/121/OT 
 
Page 17 of 21 
 
 
Annexure I 
Specification of Integrated Urodynamic System for Paediatric Surgery  
1. The system should have the facility to perform uroflowmetry, cystometry, pressure 
Flow Studies, EMG Studies, Urethra Pressure Profilometry, EMG Biofeedback, 
Anorectal Manometry and video Urodynamics 
2. Should have 5 configurable channels and cables (Vesical, Abdominal and Urethral 
channels). Should have auto 80-100mmHg test / calibration button for checking 
the transducers. Fitted to bracket/clamps. Transducer should be reusable having 
pressure range (-50-350mmHg). 
3. Should be able to attach 3 pressure transducers, 1 flow channel and should have 1 
channel as spare. 
4. Should have automatic air pump for profile applications. 
5. Should have infusion pump 4 roller, software control (start/stop & speed selection) 
Cystometry: Filling and Voiding 
- 
Integrated filling pump and volume sensor. 
- 
Compliance and pressure volume plot. 
- 
ICS, Schaffer and Abrams-Griffiths Pressure flow Nomograms 
6. Should have facility to attach Uroflow transducer. Should be supplied’ with one 
wireless weight Based uroflow transducer with flow range of 0.50ml/sec, Volume 
Range up to 2000ml. must have auto record and auto zero facility for Uroflowmeter. 
Mictiometry: wireless connection allow patient comfort / Privacy Liverpool,siroky 
and Paediatric Nomograms 
7. Should be supplied with 1 channel wireless EMG. Should be available with surface 
electrodes, bipolar needles and Vaginal and rectal probes. 
8. Should be supplied with UPP Puller to allow urethral pressure profile studies. 
Should be Autoclavable and software control. 
9. Should be supplied EMG Biofeedback software for pelvic floor rehabilitation with 
Electromyography Biofeedback and Biofeedback with pressure balloon. 
10. Should be supplied with software for doing video urodynamic studies. Allows x-ray 
images to be combined with the Urodynamic traces. Display / record/ print option 
all available. 
Technical data 
- 
Analogue or Digital input signals. 
- 
Real time digital recording and replay. 
- 
BNC and USB connections 
11. The system should have integrated PC for display, mounted on a trolley of the same 
company to fit the complete UDS. Should be adjustable in high and angle. Should 
have integrated keyboard, water proof with tracker ball. 
12. Should be supplied with colour Deskjet Printer. 
13. Should be supplied with Micturition Chair- Height adjustable, folding arms, 
detachable seat and cover, removable funnel. 
14. Should be supplied Micturition stand- voiding studies, height adjustable, removal 
funnel. 


--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Paedia S./17/121/OT 
 
Page 18 of 21 
 
15. Should be supplied with hand-held remote control to allow system operator to 
control the system without having to touch the PC/Mouse. 
16. Should be supplied with pressure channel anorectal manometry software. 
17. Should be supplied with following software 
- 
Window platform, unlimited number of templated. 
- 
Standards and terminology as according to the ICS (International continence 
Society) Nomograms, ICS, Paediatric, Siroky, Abrams-Griffiths, Werner Shaffer, 
Pressure-Flow loop, Pressure v Volume, Compliance. 
- 
Connectivity to Hospital information system and DICOM work-list & DICOM 
Storage. 
- 
Event markers- user configurable toolbars, and event markers (Icons and/or 
text) 
- 
Real time data processing and on-line storage Backup manually or 
automatically to any location. 
- 
Intelligent patient search 
18. Should be supplied with following  
 
Dual Lumen Catheter for Cystometry-5Nos. 
 
Pigtail catheter, PVC 5 Fr and bladder filling-5 Nos. 
 
Dual Lumen Abdominal Rectal Balloon Catheter for Cystometry-5 Nos. 
 
Triple Lumen Catheter for UPP-5 Nos. 
 
Pump Tubing-5 Nos. 
 
Collection Beaker-5 Nos. 
 
Pressure Cuff for perfusion-5 Nos. 
 
Reusable Pressure Transducer-6Nos. 
 
Catheter for doing ARM-2 Nos. 
19. Should be supplied with BIS (Indian Standard)/CE certified C-Arm compatible 3 
Motors Video urodynamic & fluoroscopy table multi-axial electrical movement 
controlled with remote with all standard accessories having following adjustments: 
- 
Supine to 90 degree standing position 
- 
Seated to 90 degree standing position 
- 
Supine to seated position 
20. Should be supplied with 3-D Bladder Scanner for calculating Post Void Residual. 
21. Should be supplied with complete Near Infrared Spectroscopy device for dynamic 
topographic mapping of human bladder during voiding Cystometry, hemodynamic 
analysis of bladder and urethral sphincter monitoring. 
22. The Urodynamic system should have BIS (Indian Standard)/US FDA/ European CE 
approved. 
23. Firm should quote their latest and best model. 
24. Should be supplied with 5 year warranty. 
25. Firm should quote rates for CMC for 5 years after warranty period. 
Firm should quote rates of all consumables/ spares/ Accessories and fixed it for Five 
years 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


