--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Electroconvulsiometer (with ear and corneal electrodes)                     Admn/Tender/21/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
 
41. Applicable Law: 
 The contract shall be governed by the laws and procedures established by Govt. of  India,   within 
the framework of applicable legislation and enactment made from time to time concerning such 
Commercial dealings / processing. 
 
 Any disputes are subject to exclusive jurisdiction of Competent Court and Forum in Jodhpur, 
Rajasthan, India only. 
 
 The Arbitration shall be held in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation 
Act, 1996 and the venue of arbitration shall be at Jodhpur. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be 
final and binding on both the partied. 
 
 Force Majeure: Any delay due to Force Majeure will not be attributable to the supplier. 
 
 
Administrative Officer 
AIIMS, Jodhpur 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Electroconvuls
iometer (with 
ear and 
Description of Function  
To the study of Anti-Convulsion and Anti-Epileptic drugs, whether for 
education, screening or manufacturing of drugs  
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Electroconvulsiometer (with ear and corneal electrodes)                     Admn/Tender/21/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-II 
 
TECHNICAL BID 
 
Name of Firm/Contractor/Supplier 
  
corneal 
electrodes)  
Technical Specifications  
1. Should provide 50Hz Stimulus Current variable from 0.25mA to 
500 mA through touch panel controls for producing minimal and 
Supra-maximal seizure in small animals  
2. The duration of Stimulus current is variable from 0.1 second to 1 
second in steps of 0.1 second  
Power Supply 230V 50Hz  
3. Should be supplied with corneal electrode pair (different cup size) 
and ear clip pair  
Standards, Safety and Training  
Product should be CE/BIS approved  
Manufacturer should have ISO certification  
User/Technical manual should be supplied  
Experiment data exported to PC or dedicated data acquisition software 
package.  
Bidders are encouraged to arrange for demonstration of their 
equipment if not able to comply with all specification requirement. 


