--- Page 16 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/2018/3097/OT/B 
16 | P a g e  
ANNEXURE-I 
Specifications of High End Colour Doppler System 
1 
The system should be latest & state of the art with fully digital broadband technology 
equipment to incorporate the facility of 2D, M-Mode, CDI, PW Doppler, Power Doppler & 
superficial parts imaging, Obstetrics-Gynaecology 3D/4D imaging & applications.  
2 
System must be offered with 8000000 digital processed channels and above. Technical data 
sheet should be enclosed in technical bid to support the number of channels on the systems. 
If not mentioned then attach a letter from manufacturer along with the technical bid clearly 
stating the digital processed channels of the offered system. 
3 
System must be offered with a very high dynamic range of at least 260 Db to pick up subtle 
echoes. Dynamic range in Db must be clearly mentioned in the technical quote. System offered 
lesser than specified with not be considered. 
4 
System must be offered with a minimum 23-inch-High Resolution Flat Panel Medical grade 
high definition LCD/LED Display monitor with nearly infinite position adjustments, with an 
articulating arm. 
5 
System should have at-least four Imaging universal active probe ports with electronic 
switching facility from key board without probe adapter. 
6 
Operating modes 2D, B-mode, M-Mode, B/M Mode, Doppler Mode, Colour flow, Power 
Doppler, pulsed wave doppler, High PRF PW continuous wave doppler, chroma imaging, tissue 
doppler imaging, pulse inversion, cine loop image, B/Colour flow, PW Doppler 
7 
System should support broad band technology probes spanning a frequency of 1-16 MHz. 
8 
B mode & B colour simultaneous should be available side by side real time display of B-Mode 
& Colour flow. Digital zoom facility for region of interest in real time and frozen images. 
9 
Image storage facility on in build hard disc or MOD/CD/DVD-RW facility should be available. 
In built hard disk with minimum capacity of 500 GB. System should have extensive image 
management capability including thumb nail review, Cineloop editing etc. 
10 
Should have the state of the art Transmit Real Time Compound Imaging Technology with 
Multiple transmitted lines of sight, wherein Multiple Coplanar Images from different viewing 
angles are obtained and combined into a single compound Image at real-time frame rates for 
improved visualization. Should demonstrate and show multiple transmitted line of sight in 
convex, linear and endocavity probes. 
11 
System must be offered with Speckle Reduction Imaging: Image processing technique to 
remove speckles and clutter artifacts 
12 
Advanced measurements & calculation package for abdominal, obstetrics & Gynaecology, 
urology, vascular, MSK, small parts, Pediatric abdominal imaging should be available. 
13 
System should be capable of scanning depth of 30cms. Scanning Depth should be clearly 
mentioned in the technical quote If not mentioned. Please attach a letter from manufacturer 
along with the technical bid clearly stating the scanning depth of 30cms in the offered system. 
14 
System must be offered with an 2D frame rate of at least 2500 frames/second. Acquisition 
frame rate should be clearly mentioned in the technical quote. If not mentioned, please attach 
a letter from manufacturer along with the technical bid clearly stating the frame rate of the 
offered system. 
15 
System must be offered with minimum 12-inch-high resolution user interface touch panel. 
16 
System should have THI & should be able to work in combined mode of harmonic imaging and 
real time compound imaging to get excellent image quality. The system shall offer Tissue 
Harmonic Imaging in Power Doppler imaging mode for improved sensitivity and specificity in 
differentiating blood/agent from tissue. 
17 
The system should be field upgradable (CEUS) Contrast Imaging and optimization settings to 
detect the Contrast Agents for convex, linear & endocavitary transducers.  


--- Page 17 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/2018/3097/OT/B 
17 | P a g e  
18 
The system should have Breast & Gynaecology Strain Elastography imaging with quality factor 
(in terms of number or bar graph). One touch entry into Elastography mode. 
Elastogram applied as a region of interest box with user control of size and location through 
entire field of view and measurement of strain rate and total strain rate with graphical display. 
19 
Automatic real time & frozen tracing of instantaneous peak velocity & instantaneous mean 
velocity (or frequency) should be available. Triplex Imaging should be standard on the system. 
20 
The System should have Panoramic imaging. 
21 
The system should be DICOM ready. System should have capability of HIS and RIS connectivity 
and should also be connected to the dry chemistry printer available in the department (CR/DR 
system/ CT/MRI/Mammography). Should provide advanced DICOM connectivity to an 
enterprise data management system or PACS with advanced DICOM features: DICOM Store, 
Modality Work list, Performed Procedure Step and Structured Reporting. Please specify the 
advance DICOM features available on the quoted system. 
22 
The System should be quoted with STIC application for an easier view of fetal heart valves and 
wall motion, to aid in detecting anomalies during routine obstetrical examination. 
23 
The System should be quoted with protocol driven workflow for assessing the fetal heart data 
set and giving views as recommended by ISUOG Fetal Cardiac Screening Guidelines with 
semiautomated features which derives 6 fetal ECHO Planes with 2 reference points. 
24 
System should have facility to use of entire monitor viewing area for displaying 
image in B mode, Color & PW mode.  
25 
System should have facility to display fetal CNS Plane automatically. 
26 
System should have facility to display real time omni Planes. Three simultaneous planes will 
be preferred. 
27 
System should be able to calculate Fractional Shortening and Global Sphericity index of the 
fetal Ventricles using strain with a semi-automated workflow. 
 
SYSTEM MUST BE  THE FOLLOWING TRANSDUCERS  
1 
2–6 MHz Broadband technology Convex Transducer for General Imaging, Abdomen, Renal, 
OB/GYN imaging with capabilities of CEUS (contrast enhance ultrasound system) in future 
upgrade. Must have Tissue Harmonic Imaging for excellent Image quality on Difficult to image 
patients. Should also supply reusable biopsy kit. The probe should be single crystal with cool 
stack technology. 
2 
4-11 MHz Brondband technology Linear Array Transducer for Breast, Musculoskeletal, small 
parts, vascular & abdominal imaging with capabilities of strain based Elastography imaging. 
Must have Tissue Harmonic Imaging. Please mention the Elastography technology used in the 
transducer by attaching technical data sheet of transducer. should supply reusable biopsy kit. 
3 
4-9 MHz Broadband technology Micro convex Transducer for endocavity imaging with 
capabilities of CEUS and strain based Elastography imaging. Must have Tissue Harmonic 
Imaging for excellent grayscale image quality on Difficult to image patients with minimum FOV 
of 170⁰.  Please attach technical data sheet of transducer. Also supply reusable biopsy kit. 
4 
2-6 MHz Broadband Mechanical/ motorized Volume Transducer for General Imaging, 
Abdomen, Renal, OB/GYN imaging. Must have Tissue Harmonic Imaging. Should attach 
technical data sheet of transducer to specify. 
 


--- Page 18 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/2018/3097/OT/B 
18 | P a g e  
 
System should be supplied with the following peripheral devices: 
1 
Thermal B/W Printer. 
2 
2 KVA ONLINE UPS. 
3 
Latest Pentium PC (off-cart workstation) with software for analyzing and quantification of 2D 
and 3D data sets. CD/DVD writer with Image Management Software and colour laser Printer. 
PC should be offered with a flat panel 17-inch display monitor. (Hardware essential for OFF-
CART Quantification). 
 
 
 


