--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Body Composition Analyzer for Nephrology   
 
              Admn/Tender/37/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
 
01. 
 
Body Composition 
Analyzer     
Basic Machine  
 
1. Microprocessor controlled standalone device capable of measuring 
hydration status & nutrition. 
2. Employs bio-impedance spectroscopy technique.  
3. Battery Backup of at least 4-5 hours with level indicator.  
4. Following information should be given about the individual fluid 
status –  
 Over-hydration  
 Urea Distribution Volume  
 Total Body Water  
 Extracellular and Intracellular water  
 Lean Tissue Index  
 Fat Tissue Index  
 Body Cell Mass  
5. Should have simple button operation for changing numerical value 
and recording any easy task.  
6. Light weight & Compact Design.  
7. Complete on screen data reports should be accessed.  
8. Measurement should be based on a non-invasive and accurate 
method that is easy to apply.  
9. Should have software enabled feature, to provide graphical overview 
of the fluid status and body composition of the patient.  
 
Accessories  
 
Compulsory accessories, for 10 patients which are must for smooth and 
safe running of machine, must be quoted along with machine including 
Data Processing computer and printer etc.  
 
Environmental factors and power supply  
 
1. Shall meet General Requirements of Safety for Electromagnetic 
Compatibility.  
2. The machine shall be capable of being stored in ambient temperature 
of 0 -50deg C and relative humidity of 15-90% 
3. The unit shall be capable of operating in ambient temperature of 20-
30 deg C and relative humidity of less than 70%  
4. Power input: 220-240V/ 50 Hz AC Single phase or 380-400V AC 50 
Hz Three phase fitted with appropriate Indian plugs and sockets.  
5. Suitable Servo controlled Stabilizer/CVT should be supplied, if 
required. 
 
Standard, safety, demonstration, training, warranty and 
maintenance  
 
1. Electrical safety conforms to standards for electrical safety.  
2. Should be USFDA & European-CE certified. 
3. Company should be in market for at least five years.  
4. Machine demonstration to be done in the AIIMS Jodhpur on date and 
time as fixed by the department.  
5. Training of the hospital staff if required by the department should be 
done by the manufactures.  
01 


