--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Portable Color Doppler Ultrasound Unit 
Admn/Tender/23-5/2018-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Portable 
Color 
Doppler 
Ultrasoun
d Unit 
A state of art fully digital, compact portable Colour Doppler Ultrasound 
machine with zero foot print and pin less connector is required with 
following technical features. 
1. The unit must be compact, portable and lightweight, weighing less 
than 6 kg including battery.  
2. Imaging modes  Real time 2D, Colour Doppler, Power Doppler, 
Pulsed wave Doppler, Continuous wave Doppler (on all cardiac 
transducers), Tissue Doppler Pulsed Wave Doppler (TDI PW) must 
be available. 
3. Unit should be able to give very high image quality with advance 
technologies for better tissue differentiation and edge detection, 
equivalent to high end cart based systems.  
4. System should be able to support speckle reduction imaging for 
better tissue differentiation and edge enhancement. 
5. The system shall have the ability to enhance tissue margins and 
improve contrast resolution by reducing artifacts and improving 
visualization of texture patterns & needle tip within the image, 
please specify the technology.  
6. System should have both online (Read) as well as offline(Write) 
zoom facility  
7. Imaging modes of Real time 2D, Colour Doppler, Pulsed wave 
Doppler, Continuous wave Doppler, Power Doppler must be 
available on all cardiac transducers. 
8. System must have fast start up to scanning in less than 30 seconds 
from off condition, for use in critical and emergency situations.  
9. System should support transducer technologies like phased array, 
convex, linear, hockey stick etc. It should have standard provision 
of dual transducer connector to switch between two transducers 
simultaneously.  
10. Cine memory on all modes.  
11. The system shall process a dynamic range that is at least 165db. 
The system must display at a maximum depth of 35 cm. 
12. Unit must be sturdy, resistant to breakage & damage on fall/ hit 
against the wall or hard surface. The certificate must be attached. 
13. Flat LCD/ TFT monitor of at least 12 inches with up/down/right/left 
viewing are >80 degree for wider view angle display in operating 
rooms. 
02 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Portable Color Doppler Ultrasound Unit 
Admn/Tender/23-5/2018-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14. System should have touch screen display with optimized menu for 
commonly used controls and facility to sanitize the system 
keyboard to avoid cross contamination.  
15. The system must have the ability to function by AC/DC or battery 
power with the same degree of functionality, the battery life (run 
time) shall be al least 2 (Two) hours.   
16. The system must have archive capability for storage and retrieval of 
images and clips data. 
17. Data Transfer facility should be available as standard, to transfer 
images etc. easily onto another system/computer etc. 
18. System should possess software for Enhanced Needle Visualization 
to track the needle clearly at steep angles during the procedures 
while maintaining striking image quality of the target structures and 
the surrounding anatomy with simple On/Off functionality.  
19. The system shall support the all DICOM functionality, Storage, 
Print, and Work List, already to connect to PACS. 
20. The equipment should be mountable on trolley & locking 
mechanism should be inbuilt into the trolley for safety & security of 
the system. 
21. Should be USFDA or European CE certified (with 4 digit 
notification number from a notified body). 
22. The firm must have minimum number of 30 installations in India of 
same or similar models, attach list of installations, and also provide 
a few latest performance certificates.  
23. The unit, transducers and all accessories should be covered with 
comprehensive onsite warranty for five years commencing from the 
date of issue of installation certificate 
Transducers & accessories to be supplied as standard:- 
1. 13-6 MHz 25-mm broadband linear array Musculoskeletal, vascular, 
nerve, superficial, venous, ophthalmic 
2.  8-5 MHz 11-mm broadband curved array Abdominal, neonatal, nerve, 
vascular. 
3.  8-4 MHz 10-mm broadband phased array Peadiatric cardiology, 
abdominal, neonatal head 


