--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Micro/18/08/OT 
 
 
Page 19 of 24 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
DETAILED TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR 
CHEMI DOC IMAGING SYSTEM 
 
Specification for Chemi Doc Imaging System 
 
1. Sensitive, autofocus, multimode image capture and analysis via an intuitive 
touchscreen 
interface 
with 
the 
application 
of 
Chemiluminescence, 
Fluorescence, Colorimetry and Gel Documentation to analyze  western blots, 
Stained Nucleic acid Gels, Stained protein gels and Nucleic Acid Blots, 
molecular weight calculation, band distance, colony counting, merge marker 
etc.  
2. Motorized fixed lens optics with F/0.70 aperture. 
3. Should have motorized 7-position filter wheel for dye flexibility of different 
fluorescent stains and for multiplexing. 
4. Should have scientific 6 CCD camera with sensor size of 1 inch must for high 
sensitivity and extremely high level of resolution  
5. Camera should give 6.3 megapixels native and 20 megapixels of motorized 
zoom lens with -55˚C maximum differential cooling from the ambient with -
30˚C absolute and regulated cooling by three stage peltier thermoelectric 
cooler. 
6. Auto Focus: System should have precalibrated focus for any zoom setting or 
sample height 
7. Image output should be of publication quality TIFF format 16-bit with 65,536 
gray scales and dynamic range of > 4.8 OD 
8. System must have native binning mode 1 x 1 to achieve 6.3 megapixels 
native image and subsequently 2x2, 3x3, 4x4, 8x8 
9. System should automatically take a corresponding visible white image with 
every chemiluminescent image exposure and should allow overlay/merge 
alignment with pre-stained MW markers.  
10. System should not have any plastic cabinet to avoid auto fluorescence from 
dark room. 
11. The complete capability to replace a Dark Room.  
12. The Exposure time should be from 40 milliseconds to 120 minutes or less.  
13. Illumination source should be 302 or 312 nm trans UV and LED epiwhite. 
Should have minimum of 10.4 inch touchscreen display with an integrated / 
external computer with >200GB hard drive. To operate the touchscreen 
interface, a stylus should be provided along with the system.  
14. All mini/midi and large gels should be imaged in the system. Image are at 
least 16 X 20 cm.  
15. The System should create Dark and Biased Master files to compensate for 
the noise coming from the CCD Camera during Image Acquisition.  
16.  The capability to automatically capture a series of images using preset or 
user defined exposure times. 
17. Innovative molecular weight overlay/merge feature where colorimetric 
molecular weight marker can be overlaid onto a chemiluminescent image for 
molecular weight determination without compromising the underlying 
chemiluminescent densitometry data. 
18.  System have the technology to visualize faint bands thereby increased 
sensitivity 
with 
no 
visible 
light 
background 
while 
performing 
gel 
documentation.  


--- Page 20 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Micro/18/08/OT 
 
 
Page 20 of 24 
 
19. Should have light safety switch override for safety and for preparative work 
when the door is open.  
20. Software should be multi-user licensed provided for analysis and must 
include features for auto exposure and 3D Dynamic scan. 
21. System must have in-built Red, Green & Blue LEDs along with emission 
filters one each for Red, Green & Blue excitation to support multiplexing 
studies. 
22. The Software should be able to calculate sample purity automatically 
based on band and lane intensity and should be able to calculate the 
Relative and Absolute quantity of the unknown proteins samples. 
23. Should be an open platform to accept standard image file types (i.e., TIFF, 
JPEG, PNG, GIF, BMP files).  
24. The Software should be able to edit the Images and Text Annotation option 
should also be there.  
25. The Software should perform Lane Profile Densitometry (Lane and Band 
Identification) and it should also analyze Molecular Weight; determine the Rf 
and Molecular Weight of protein or Nucleic Acid Bands using Installed or 
Custom MW Markers  
26. Software should have highest level of automation in hardware calibration, image 
optimization, capture, and analysis. 
27. Should have automated image capture driven by a selected gel or blot application.  
28. Software should have automated normalization feature for normalizing western 
blot signals of target band with either a housekeeping protein band or total 
protein load of a sample.  
29. Software should have feature for Automatic print when only imaging and printing 
is required. 
30. Software should have unlimited undo and redo functions to easily correct for any 
missteps with additional features like easy copy/paste, crop, zoom, 3D viewer and 
colors. 
31. Should be single software for acquisition and analysis with no requirement for any 
license or registration. 
32. Free life time upgrade for acquisition and analysis software should be available 
freely on the internet.  
33. System should be supplied with reagents for initial demonstration and training 
(Pre stained protein marker 500µl, Unstained protein marker 1ml, ECL substrate 
300ml) 
34. Should be supplied with suitable computer(core i5 CPU, 4GB RAM, 1TB HDD, 
18.5” monitor, 6th generation motherboard) and 1KVA online UPS with 30mins 
back up.  
35. Electrical specification: 220 volts, 50Hz. single phase A.C.  
36. System must have European CE/ FDA. 
37. Should be supplied with warranty of two years. 
38. AMC for 3 years. 
 
Note: Compliance of the technical specification will be determined by the 
technical committee from a brief 10 minute power point presentation by the 
manufacturer/ representatives justifying the compliance to each of the above 
mentioned specifications with documentary proof. 


