--- Page 10 ---
Tender for V-HIT System 
Admn/Tender/26/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
V-HIT 
System  
Technical Specifications: 
1. Video Recording should be at 30 , 60 or 120 Hz and should include Impulse, 
Gaze, VOR, Skew Deviation, Dynamic, Repositioning, Video Recording and 
Playback. 
2. Eye Tracking should at 100 x 100 pixels include Impulse, VOR, and 
Monocular Video Frenzel (ROI) 
3. Eye tracking at 160 x 120 pixels should include Gaze, Skew Deviation, and 
Dynamic Repositioning 
4. Eye tracking at 376 x 240 pixels should have Monocular Video Frenzel (Full 
Image) 
5. Vestibular Software should have a Windows Graphical User Interface. It 
should be  a High Performance Analysis Software. It should have a robust 
secure backend Database that will enable storage of Test Data, permit good 
patient Test Data Management; 
6. The V-HIT setup should have goggles with 2 built-in calibration lasers for 
patient calibration 
7. The instrument should have a USB 2.0 or 3.0 to PC hardware interface 
8. The Device should be powered through USB: 5V DC/500mA or, via an 
External Power Supply with appropriate adapter for providing 5V DC. 
9. Inputs for the Head module should have a 9 Axis Motion Sensor 
10. Inputs for Eyes should be monocular with a sampling rate of 250 fps for 
Impulse, VOR & facility for Video Record/Playback; sampling rate of 173 fps - 
Gaze, Skew Deviation, Dynamic, Repositioning 
11. The Wavelength maximum should be 660 nm 
12. The maximum output power should be 0.9 mW 
13. Minimum Computer Requirements: 
(a) Operating System:   64-bit: Latest Windows Professional. 
(b) CPU:  Intel i7 processor, Memory 64-bit: 16 GB, Disk Space -1 TB SSD 
(c) Four USB-C for the goggles, synchronized room video, presentation 
remote, and external medical grade monitor 
(d) DVD R/W, Monitor -1920 X 1080 pixels Screen resolution 
14. Other qualifications: 
(a) Rates of the spares/accessories/consumables which are not 
covered under guarantee/warrantee should be- quoted individually 
and by the company (item not mentioned in the list are assumed 
under comprehensive warranty and company have to provide for 
proper function of equipment) and should be freeze for five years 
from the date of installation. Any spares/accessories/consumables not 
quoted by the company will be presumed to be supplied free by the 
company. 
(b) The instruments might be called for demonstration and approval. 
It is the sole discretion of the committee to approve or disapprove the 
quality. 
(c) It should be European CE (with a four digit notifiable body) or 
USFDA approved. 
(d) All the equipment including all the accessories should be 
provided with the detailed data sheet/ along with the original 
brochure of the quoted model (Photocopies/Print outs are not 
accepted). 
(e) An undertaking to be provided by the principal/manufacturer of 
the system for availability of spares for 10 years for the date of 
installation. 
01 


