--- Page 28 ---
          Tender enquiry No. :   F. No 24/RT/TEE /CTVS/ 663 /2023-RISH (ADMN) 
 
28 
 
Technical Specification of high end 4D Transoesophageal echocardiography machine 
1. The system must be latest generation, highest & technologically advanced digital 4D (Live 
3D) TTE & TEE echocardiography system. 
2. System should have frame rate up to 3500 FPS.  
3. System must have adult cardiology transducer with broadband technology or equivalent for 
excellent greyscale image quality on difficult to image patients. Please mention the 
technology used in the transducer.  
4. System must be offered with a minimum 22 inch or higher high resolution monitor with 
infinite position adjustments.  
5. System should have at-least Three imaging active probe ports with electronic switching 
facility from key board without probe adapter.  
6. System should be capable of supporting second generation 4D(Live3D) matrix TEE 
transducer capable of supporting  exceptional 4D (live 3D) Echo, 4D(Live 3D) zoom. 
7. System should support boroad band probes spanning a frequently of 1-15 MHz(+-2).  
8. Image storage facility on in build hard disc with capacity of 1TB. System should have 
extensive image capability including thumb nail review. Cine loop editing etc. management. 
Should be offered with (1 TB SSD + 1 TB ) Internal and External. 
9. System must be offered with speckle reduction imaging: Image processing technique to 
remove speckles and clutter artifacts. System should have 4D depth rendering technology 
with light source and transparency to improve regurgitation assessment.  
10. System should be capable of scanning depth of 30 cm. Scanning Depth should be clearly 
mentioned in the technical quoted if not mentioned Please attach a letter from 
manufacturer along with the technical bid clearly stating the scanning depth of 30 cm in the 
offered system.  
11. Should be able to perform advanced quantification measurements like Automated strain & 
CRT quantification. Should measure the myocardial velocity and derives the strain rate and 
strain along user-defined M-lines, Capable of drawing up to 3 M-lines at a time, Capable of 
sub-dividing each M-line into 8 sub-regions or according to user-defined sub-region sizes, 
Point of interest tool obtains values from any point on the M-mode display. In addition to 
the tissue Doppler based strain system should have 2D based strain like AFl or Automated 
Strain for LV, LA and RV should be offered. System should have pressure strain curve for 
better prognostic. 
12. System should have automated/semi-automated 2D tools for TAPSE, LA Volume, EF 
assessment. 
13. System must be offered with user friendly high resolutions user interface touch panel of 
minimum size of 12.0 inch or intuitive keyboard. User friendliness will be given preference.  
14. The system should have the facility light source depth rendering technology.  
15. Contrast Imaging should be offered as standard on the system, with optimization for Low 
and HI MI applications. Should also have facility of LOW MI with triggered replacement 
Imaging.  
16. Integrated stress Echo facility to perform Stress Echo exams. Images can be used later for 
Strain offline as well. System should have Automated Three-layer strain with Segments 
approval and deletion. System should have blood pressure compensation mechanism for 
optimised oncology follow up assessment. 


--- Page 29 ---
          Tender enquiry No. :   F. No 24/RT/TEE /CTVS/ 663 /2023-RISH (ADMN) 
 
29 
 
17. Should have the state of the art Transmit real time compound Imaging Technology with 
Multiple transmitted lines of sight, wherein multiple coplanar Images from different viewing 
angels are obtained and combined into a single compound image at real-time frame rates 
for improved visualization. Should demonstrate and show multiple transmitted line of sight 
in liner probes.  
18. System Should have 4D dynamic LV, RV, LA Volume. 
19. Cardiac Auto doppler with Artificial intelligence. 
20. Real time triplane 2D imaging in volume probe for visualising all 17 segments. 
21. Echopac/Tomtec Workstation with same capabilities should be offered on the workstation.  
22. OFF-CART workstation (both licensed hardware and licensed software) should be  
quoted and highlighted in the technical bid. The licensed hardware and software licence should 
support throughout the warranty and CMC period of the echocardiography machine.  The cost should 
be included in the price bid. The work station should be of highest standard, with  series i9 processor 
with 10 core or higher version and 10 TB Hard disk. Workstation should be provided with support 
(Table) to mount it. PC should be offered with a flat panel 17" display monitor. 
23. System Should be offered with Software beamforming technology. C Sound/n Sight Plus or 
equivalent. 
24. 2D AI based measurement should be offered. 
25. System should offer fusion technology with other modalities. Like Echo navigator or CT 
Fusion etc. 
26. Strain Measurement to be offered as standard in the system 
27. System Should be offered with tomographic representation for Mitral Valve, and Aorta. 
28. Multislice imaging from 4D with up to 12 Slice.  
29. Following latest Transducers (Frequency tolerance +/-2MHz ) should be supplied with the 
system  
a.) (2-5) MHz Broadband 2d adult echo transducer for adult cardiology imaging. Must have 
Tissue harmonic Imaging. 
b.) (2-5) MHz 4D TTE Probe for 4D Adult with Wide Apex in 2D and 4D for Improved Clinical 
Diagnosis. Offered Probe should be latest with more than 5000 elements.  
c.) (2-8) MHz latest 4D Adult TEE Transducer with customisable tee probe button. 
d.) (3-10) Mhz 2D pediatric TEE Transducer. 
e.) Micro TEE for weight starts with 3 Kg. 
f.) Pediatric 2D Phased array probe with wider field of view more than 90 degree with z Score. 
g.) 3 to 12 (± 1)  MHz linear probe- one 
30. 2 KVA UPS for power back up one in number 
31. Colour laser printer one number 
32. Demonstration of the equipment in AIIMS Rishikesh if required. 
33. Guarantee: Comprehensive Guarantee for five years for parts and labour. All software updates a 
period of 5 to be provided free of cost. CMC should be unconditional and include all accessories, 
including all transducers including TEE including third party items. 
34. Comprehensive Guarantee for parts and labour from year 6 to 10 will also need to be quoted in 
the price separately and will be taken into account (added in the price bid) while calculating the 
Final price. CMC should also include all accessories, transducers & third party items. 
35. 
Downtime for machine should not exceed 48 hours beyond which 0.01% of the basic cost of the 
workstation will be imposed as penalty per day beyond this period of 48 hours. 
 


