--- Page 17 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/T&E/19/006/OT 
 
 
Page 17 of 20 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical Specification 
Sl. No. 
Item Descriptions 
1 
Technical specification for Portable Color Doppler Ultrasound Unit: 
 
A state of art fully digital, compact Color Doppler Ultrasound machine is required with following 
 
1. 
Unit should be able to give very high image quality with advance technologies like 
compound imaging for better contrast resolution, tissue differentiation and edge detection, 
equivalent to high end cart based systems. Please specify the technology. 
2. 
Unit should be compact, durable & less than 5 kg in weight. 
3. 
Imaging modes of Real time 2D, Color Doppler, Power Doppler, Pulsed wave Doppler, 
Continuous wave Doppler must be available. 
4. 
System should have both online (Read) as well as offline(Write) zoom facility 
5. 
System must have fast start up to scanning in less than 30 seconds from off condition, for use 
in critical care environment and emergency field situations. 
6. 
System should support transducer technologies like phased array, convex, linear & TEE 
format. 
7. 
The system should have a broadband architecture with an operating frequency of at least 1 to 
15 MHz 
8. 
Cine memory should be available on all operating modes. 
9. 
The system shall process a dynamic range that is at least 165db. The system must display at 
a maximum depth of 35 cm. 
10. The system must have dedicated calculation packages for cardiac, Vascular & Ob/Gyn 
measurements. 
11. The offered unit must have Flat LCD/ TFT monitor of at least 12 inches with Anti glare 
coating and flicker free image. 
12. Alphanumeric soft keys backlit and splash resistant keypad with easy access scans controls, 
facility to sanitize the system keyboard to avoid cross contamination. 
13. The system must have the ability to function by AC/DC or battery power with the same 
degree of functionality, the battery life (run time) shall be al least 2 (Two) hours, this need to 
demonstrate. 
14. The system must have archive capability for storage & retrieval of images and clips. It 
should have atleast 2 USB slots, which allow for direct sharing of images (JPEG) and clips 
(AVI) to a PC. 
15. Unit & transducers must be rugged, resistant to breakage & damage on fall/hit so as to 
withstand busy & field situations. 
16. The system must have in-built memory of at least 16 GB for storing Patient data & studies. 
17. The system shall support the all DICOM functionality, Storage, Print, and Work List, also 
ready to connect to PACS. 
18.  System should have both European CE and US FDA quality certification. 
 
Transducers & other accessories to be supplied as standard: 
 
1. 
2-5 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency broadband Curved array transducer for Adult 
abdominal, applications 
2. 
6-13 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency, broadband linear array transducer for vascular, 
venous, small parts, musculoskeletal, Lung, nerve imaging with less than 40mm size. 
3. 
1-5 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency broadband Phased array transducer for abdominal, 
Cardiac, Lung & OB applications. 
4. 
Neonatal and paediatric transducer 
5. 
A trolley must be available to store and/or transport the system. 
6. 
Triple Transducer Connector with electronic switching facility to toggle between 
transducers. 
7. 
B/W Thermal printer 
 
 


--- Page 18 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/T&E/19/006/OT 
 
 
Page 18 of 20 
 
 
Optional Transducers/Software/Items: 
 
1. 
6-12 (+/-1) MHz multi-frequency, broadband, 25 mm linear array transducer for vascular, 
musculoskeletal, nerve and superficial imaging. 
2. 
6-15 (+/-1) MHz broadband Linear array, 50 mm (+/-5 mm) transducer for superficial, small 
parts and musculoskeletal applications. 
3. 
High Frequency ‘Hockey Shape’ Linear transducer 6-12 (+/-1) MHz for nerve blocks, 
vascular access, Vascular Imaging. 
4. 
Up gradation with Needle visualization software should be possible which can dynamically 
optimize the image to give the best possible view of the needle in real time. 
 
 
 
Instructions for Online Bid Submission: 
The bidders are required to submit soft copies of their bids electronically on the CPP Portal, using 
valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions given below are meant to assist the bidders in 
registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in accordance with the requirements and submitting 
their bids online on the CPP Portal.  
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at: 
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. 
REGISTRATION 
1) Bidders are required to enroll on the e-Procurement module of the Central Public Procurement 
Portal (URL: https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on the link “Online bidder 
Enrollment” on the CPP Portal which is free of charge. 
2) As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique username and 
assign a password for their accounts.  
3) Bidders are advised to register their valid email address and mobile numbers as part of the 
registration process. These would be used for any communication from the CPP Portal.  
4) Upon enrolment, the bidders will be required to register their valid Digital Signature Certificate  
(Class II or Class III Certificates with signing key usage) issued by any Certifying Authority 
recognized by CCA India (e.g. Sify /  nCode / eMudhra etc.), with their profile. 
5) Only one valid DSC should be registered by a bidder. Please note that the bidders are responsible 
to ensure that they do not lend their DSC’s to others which may lead to misuse. 
6) Bidder then logs in to the site through the secured log-in by entering their user ID / password 
and the password of the DSC / e-Token. 
SEARCHING FOR TENDER DOCUMENTS  
1) There are various search options built in the CPP Portal, to facilitate bidders to search active 
tenders by several parameters. These parameters could include Tender ID, Organization Name, 
Location, Date, Value, etc. There is also an option of advanced search for tenders, wherein the 
bidders may combine a number of search parameters such as Organization Name, Form of 
Contract, Location, Date, Other keywords etc. to search for a tender published on the CPP Portal.  
2) Once the bidders have selected the tenders they are interested in, they may download the 
required documents / tender schedules. These tenders can be moved to the respective ‘My 
Tenders’ folder. This would enable the CPP Portal to intimate the bidders through SMS / e-mail 
in case there is any corrigendum issued to the tender document.  


