--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Rotarod (6 Compartments )-computerized                                                    Admn/Tender/15/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Rotarod                
(6 Compartments) 
computerized  
Description of Function  
1.1 The "Rota-Rod" treadmill technique has proved to be of great 
value in research involving screening of drugs which are 
potentially active on motor coordination  
2 Operational Requirements  
2.1 Microprocessor / microcontroller treadmill is required for rat 
and mice  
2.2 Technical Specifications  
2.3 Rota-Rod treadmill should consist of a computer-controlled 
stepper motor-driven drum with constant speed or accelerating 
speed modes of operation or Variable speed via belt / gear  
2.4 Provision of recording 6 animals simultaneously in six test 
zones with independent trip counter.  
2.5 Plexi-Glass front panels for viewing during test.  
2.6 Adjustable test length(at least upto 900 sec, start speed (0-30 
variation of +/- 3 RPM),top end speed( Max speed 30 RPM),ramp 
speed, Forward and reverse rotation mode  
2.7 PC connectivity as well as suitable PC of Latest configuration 
should be supplied.  
2.8 Printer connectivity as well as Printer should be supplied.  
2.9 Should have a digital display shows all test results for each 
animal position The results should include Stopping RPM, length 
of test and distance travelled.  
1. 2.1 Should be able to determine neuro-pixicity, muscle tone, 
balance and motor co-ordination in rats and mice.  
3 Standards, Safety and Training  
3.1 Should be CE / BIS approved product  
3.2 Calibration/Acceptance test certificate from the factory 
required.  
3.3 Manufacturer/Supplier should have ISO certification for 
quality standards.  
4 Documentation  
4.1 User/Service Manual in English  
4.2 Compliance Report to be submitted in a tabulated and point 
wise manner clearly mentioning the page/ para number of original 
catalogue/data sheet. Any point, if not substantiated with 
authenticated catalogue/manual, will not be considered.  
5 Bidders are encouraged to arrange for demonstration of their 
equipment if not able to comply with all specification 
requirement.  
01 


