--- Page 20 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Pedia. Surgery/222(VI)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 20 
 
Pediatric Ventilator – 02 in nos. 
 
1. Latest model, microprocessor Controlled suitable for Pediatric and adult ventilation. 
2. Should have facility for Invasive and Non-Invasive ventilation. 
3. Electromagnetic Compatible, hinged arm holder for holding the circuit. 
4. Should have built in touch color screen TFT display of minimum 10” or more for displayof waveforms and 
monitored value. 
5. Should have inbuilt facility to upgrade with EtcO2. 
6. Facility to Measure and display: - 
i. Status indicator for ventilator mode. 
ii. Battery indication. 
iii. Pressure Vs Time Vs Volume Vs time, flow Vs time 3 curves/ waveforms. 
iv. Alarm setting. 
7. Automatic compliance and leakage compensation for circuit and ET Tube. 
8. Should have facility of log book, for events and alarms with date & time. 
9. Should have following settings. 
i. Tidal volume (Minimum at least 50ml, Maximum up to 2000ml) 
ii. Inspiratory Pressure (up to 80 cm of H20) 
iii. Respiratory rate 20 to 80 bpm. 
iv. Apnea back up rate. 
v. CPAP/PEEP 
vi. Pressure support. 
vii. Fi02 
viii. Pause Time 
ix. Pressure & flow Trigger 
x. Inspiratory flow up to 120 Lpm. 
10. Monitoring and Display of the following Parameters. 
i. Airway Pressure (Peak & Mean). 
ii. Tidal volume (Inspired & Expired). 
iii. Minute volume (Inspired & Expired 
iv. Respiratory mechanics. 
v. Spontaneous Minute Volume. 
vi. Total Frequency. 
vii. F102 dynamic. 
viii. Intrinsic PEEP. 
ix. Plateau Pressure. 
x. Resistance & Compliance. 
xi. Use selector Alarms for all measured & monitored parameters. 
xii. Occlusion Pressure. 
xiii. Pressure Flow & Volume curves. 
11. Modes of Ventilation equipped with newer modes of ventilation: - 
i. Assist /control. 
ii. Volume Control. 
iii. Pressure control. 
iv. Pressure support. 
v. SIMV with pressure support (Pressure and volume control). 
vi. PEEP. 
vii. Inverse ratio Ventilation. 
viii. Non-invasive ventilator- BIPAP, CPAP. 
ix. Apnea Ventilation, User selectable, volume & pressure control. 
12. Should have built in safety alarms for Airway Pressure High & low, Minute volume, 
High & low, power failure, Low oxygen, High Respiratory Rate, Air Source in-operable. 
13. Should have inbuilt exhalation filter. 
14. Compressor should be of same company inbuilt/ mounted with ventilator assembly. 


--- Page 21 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Pedia. Surgery/222(VI)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 21 
 
15. Should be able to be connected to central air line via a compressor so that the compressor automatically 
switches on when air pressure in the central line drops below the recommended level. 
16. Humidifier 
i. Servo controlled heated Respiratory Humidifier. 
ii. Temperature of delivered Gas on LED display. 
iii. Temperature should be adjustable. 
iv. Jar should be autoclavable 
17. Quality Certification: Valid European CE/US FDA 
18. Demonstration of the quoted model is must, preferable on site. 
19. Nebulization assembly compatible with ventilator and circuit. 
20. Should have interface facility. 
21. Flow Sensor-Should have life more than 1 year. 
22. Expiratory Unit- Life should be more than 3yrs. 
23. Data storage facility for at least 24hrs. 
24. Should have battery back-up for the ventilator with integrated re-chargeable internal battery or should 
have UPS for 60 min. operation for both compressor + ventilator.  
25. Should have flow sensors having long life and the company shall specify the life cycle 
and the cost of the flow sensors at the time of quoting the tender. 
26. Following items should be supplied with each unit –  
I. 
Reusable, autoclavable silicone breathing circuits – 2  
II. 
Reusable & autoclavable Expiratory valve/cassettes – 2 sets  
III. 
Reusable & autoclavable Flow Sensors –02 in nos. 
IV. 
Hinge support arm for the breathing circuit from the same manufacturer – 01 in no. 
V. 
Ventilator trolley from the same manufacturer – 01 in no. 
VI. 
Non-invasive ventilator masks reusable for pediatric & adult (3sizes) – 04 set each. 
VII. 
In case of standalone humidifiers: 2 sets each of temperature probes, reusable humidifier 
chambers, heater wire adaptors for reusable circuits, and heater wire adaptors for disposable 
circuits with each humidifier  
VIII. 
In case of integrated humidifiers: One each of temperature sensors and reusable humidifier 
chambers with each ventilator  
IX. 
Heater wires for ventilator circuits (wherever applicable) – 2 nos.  
X. 
Guide wire for insertion of heater wires (wherever applicable) – 1 no.  
27. Accessories; 
I. 
Disposable breathing circuit – 10 Pediatric, 10 adult 
II. 
Filters (HME) – 100 in nos.  
III. 
O2 hose – 2 nos. 
IV. 
Air hose – 2 nos.  
V. 
Humidifier – 810: Disposable Chambers & Circuits – 10  
VI. 
Test Lung - Pediatric – 01, Adult - 01  
VII. 
Nebulization kit - Pediatric – 10, adult – 10 
VIII. 
Nasal interface (3 in number) with nasal mask (4 each of all sizes) and nasal prongs (4 each of all 
sizes) and bonnet (5 each of only preterm size) with each ventilator.  
IX. 
ET tube cuff pressure monitor - 10. 
General points: 
1. The equipment should come with a warranty of 05 years from the date of satisfactory installation 
and 5 years comprehensive maintenance contract after the end of the warranty.  
2. Warranty and CMC should include all parts including disposables and consumables - plastic, 
metallic, glass, batteries, electronic and rubber. Warranty and CMC should cover each and 
everything required for running of ventilators. The firm should maintain adequate stock of 
consumables and disposables with each unit for quick replacement. 


--- Page 22 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Pedia. Surgery/222(VI)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 22 
 
3. Warranty and CMC would include the periodic calibration of all parameters strictly as per 
manufacturer's recommendations and any spares, gases or standards required for that are to be 
included. 
4. Downtime clause: During warranty and CMC period, the downtime should not be more than 24 
hrs and standby ventilator will be provided till the repair is pending. In case company fail to give 
standby ventilator against non-functional ventilator (non-functional due to any reasons like 
pending repairs or failure in supply of accessories/ consumables in time) a penalty of 0.1% of 
basic equipment cost (FOB) will be imposed per day after first 24 hours and warranty and CMC 
will be extended by numbers of non-functional days. 
5. An unconditional agreement to point no.  02 is required for qualification. 
6. The manufacturer should provide training for the equipment to two persons at the institute. 
7. The company should provide at least 2 preventive maintenance visits/year. 
8. On-site demonstration is essential. 
9. Should supply electronic voltage corrector/stabilizer of appropriate ratings meeting BIS 
standards/specifications (Input 160-260 V & output 220-240 V, 50 Hz.), if recommended. 
10. Should have local service facility with the necessary equipments to carry out preventive 
maintenance test recommended by the manufacturer as per guidelines provided in the 
service/maintenance manual. 
11. Availability of spares for at least 10 years after date of installation. 
12. Prices of items covered under warranty/CMC, prices of consumables and accessories (optional 
accessories also) should be quoted separately and the prices should be frozen for the period 
including warranty and CMC period. 
13. The unit shall be capable of being stored continuously in ambient temperature of 0-50deg C and 
relative humidity of 15-90%. 
14. The unit shall be capable of operating in ambient temperature of 10-40 deg C and relative 
humidity of 15-90%. 
15. User/Technical/Maintenance manuals to be supplied in English.  
16. List with name and address of technical service providers in India. 
17. Log book with instructions for daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly maintenance checklist. 
18. The job description of the hospital technician and company service engineer should be clearly 
spelt out. 
19. List of spare parts and accessories with their cat no. and costing. 
20. Compliance report to be submitted in a tabulated and point-wise manner, clearly mentioning the 
page/para number with authenticated catalogue/manual, without which it will not be considered. 
Points not covered in the brochure must be specifically addressed in a separate certificate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


