--- Page 45 ---
                                                                      
                                                             Tender No. 5-1/13/2023-SPSO 
45  
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – VII  
               Technical Specification for  Flow Cardiac Output Monitor 
Technical Specification for Flow Cardiac Output Monitor 
(Following are the minimum requirement. Product must meet these parameters herein.) 
  
•          It should have a touch screen with an active area of > 12 inches. 
•   It should be able to provide Continuous Cardiac Output through a dedicated arterial sensor 
only when connected with a dedicated cable available separately. 
• It should be able to give Continuous Cardiac Output, Stroke Volume (SV), Stroke Volume 
Index (SVI), Stroke Volume Variation, and Systemic Vascular Resistance (SVR) and Systemic 
Vascular Resistance Index (SVRI) when used with appropriate arterial line sensor. 
•       Facility to upgrade with intravascular oximetry parameter i.e Central Venous Oximetry 
when used with dedicated disposable central venous catheter if required in future. 
•         It should have an optional provision for 2 Tissue Oximetry modules with the capacity to 
use up to 4 non-invasive Tissue Oximetry sensors at any point of time. 
•          It should have dedicated Tissue oximetry screen providing for the usage of sensors on 
different parts of the body such forehead, arms, legs shoulders etc 
•          It should be equipped with 3 expansion modules & 2 cable receptacles. 
•          It should have the option to be scalable to Non-invasive Cardiac Output technology and 
Cerebral Oximetry technology and other technologies in the future. 
•          It should have option of wired & wireless communication. 
It should have display capacity of at least 4 trend lines and 4 numerical display, optional 
physiology and physio-relationship screen. 
•          It should have the option of providing dedicated perioperative goal-directed therapy 
(PGDT) screens and HPI analytics. 
•          It should have the option of connectivity with hospital information system. 
It must save data for at least 72 hours. 
•          Must have screen shot and data download facility through any USB stick. 
•          It should have an HDMI, USB & ETHERENET port for various connectivity 
•          Warranty minimum 5 years,  
CMC 5 years after the end of the warranty 
Should have USFDA & CE Certificate 
Should have battery backup up to 30 mins. 
 
 


--- Page 46 ---
                                                                      
                                                             Tender No. 5-1/13/2023-SPSO 
46  
 
Rate contract of consumables:  
Sl No. 
Consumable name 
1 
FloTrac Sensor (MHD8) 
2 
Acumen IQ Sensor (AIQS85) 
3 
ForeSight Sensor Large (FSESL) 
4 
ForeSight Sensor Medium (FSESM) 
 
Terms & condition for rate contract: 
- The rate of the consumables is to be quoted in BOQ . 
- Rate quoted by the bidder will be freezed for 4 years, Bidder has to provide compliance report for 
freezing of the rates of the quoted consumables for next 4 years from the date of installation of 
machine. 
- The cost of the consumable will be charged from the patients. 
Billing mechanism for consumables along with the SOP will be intimated to successful bidder on finalization of 
the tender 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 47 ---
                                                                      
                                                             Tender No. 5-1/13/2023-SPSO 
47  
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE 
document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic 
parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of 
installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date of 
satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period 
by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After 
sales 
service 
centre 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service should 
be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the 
spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date of 
supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian 
Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the 
equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same will be in line with the 
training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site 
Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service 
/operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory 
completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for 
complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts 
wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The supplier shall visit 
each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer‟s technical/ service 
/operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive 
maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender 
Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of 
any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim 
for the same will be entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee 
for 2.5% of the cost of the equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 months after 
expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 
365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime 
period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee‟s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the 
Bank Guarantee for Annual CMC. 


--- Page 48 ---
                                                                      
                                                             Tender No. 5-1/13/2023-SPSO 
48  
 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 49 ---
                                                                      
                                                             Tender No. 5-1/13/2023-SPSO 
49  
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, 
wherever required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to 
be installed, in consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. 
Site Modification Work details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the 
end of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of 
the Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The 
Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking 
Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation 
the price will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be 
entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderer‟s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The 
tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it‟s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical 
equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety 
Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard 
IEC- 60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is 
not available they should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for 
electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test 
and Development Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance 
call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard 
interface interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital 
management information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost 
technical training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment 
on site at the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be 
required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and 
CMC period 


