--- Page 10 ---
Tender for High End Modular Nursing Station  
Admn/Tender/13/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
High End 
Modular 
Nursing 
Station  
General Specification- 
Modular Frames- 
 
1. Frames shall be available in nominal heights of 38", 54”, 70", and 
86" and widths of 2' to 4' in 6-inch increments.  To accommodate 
the wheelchair patient the frame shall be designed to provide for a 
work surface height from 29 to 34 inches on 1-inch increments. 
Work surface should be at a continuous height from inside to 
outside with a minimum six (6) inch overhang on the exterior. 
2. Frames shall be constructed of a minimum of 16-gauge steel 
tubing with a nominal 2" X 2" cross section to insure structural 
integrity and safety and shall have plastic floor glides which will 
adjust vertically at least 1" to accommodate floor variance. They 
shall be designed in such a fashion to permit all hanging 
components (work surfaces and shelves) to be adjusted in 1-inch 
vertical increments.  All hanging components must, by design, 
have an anti-dislodgment feature. Each frame shall have hinged 
injection-molded or similar extruded PVC wire management 
baseboard covers accessible on both sides which shall provide 
locations for electrical outlets and an enclosed raceway for the 
non-electrical.  The hinged covers shall allow for the laying in of 
non-electrical and eliminate the need to thread wires through the 
base of the frame and around the corners. 
3. Frames shall be firmly secured with metal connectors to one 
another quickly using a simple hand tool (i.e. screwdriver or 
wrench) and shall allow for a two-way 90-degree, two-way 
135-degree, three-way, four-way or straight line configurations.  
Frames shall be secured so that light is not transmitted through the 
connectors. 
4. Frames shall be designed to accept at least eight duplex 
receptacles per frame. A four foot wide by 38" frame must; 
however, accommodate at least eight duplex receptacles.  The 
frames shall have the capability of being wired with two modular 
eight-wire, four 20-amp circuit electrical distribution systems of 
which one circuit shall have the capability of being a completely 
dedicated circuit.  The receptacles shall be located at the baseline, 
vertically every 8 inches, and work surface level.  The entire 
system must be UL listed. Please refer to the equipment and 
electrical drawings for specific requirements. 
5. The frames shall also have the capability of receiving a hard wired 
(using 3/8" type MC aluminum cabling) solution with hospital 
grade receptacles.  The frames must accommodate both emergency 
and non-emergency power in the same frame. The receptacles 
shall be accessible at the baseline, vertically every 8 inches, and at 
08 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for High End Modular Nursing Station  
Admn/Tender/13/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
the work surface. The frame and electrical components shall be 
UL listed. 
6.  Frames shall have a wire management system that permits both 
low-voltage and data telecommunications cabling to be accessible 
at both sides of the frame at every 8 " increments including the 
baseline and work surface levels. 
7. Frames shall be designed to accept various sizes of access panels 
with different finishes and perform different functions. 
8. Frames shall be designed to permit frames of unequal heights to be 
connected to one another and capable of being anchored to the 
floor.  Frames shall be removed without disrupting adjacent 
frames. 
9. Frames shall be designed to accept a variety of work surfaces, 
including work surfaces at 135 degree corners and counter tops 
with task and ambient lighting. 
10. Frames shall be designed to accept support rails in five nominal 
lengths from 24" to 48" wide.  These rails are used to support 
storage units. 
11. Frames shall be capable of receiving a rail to provide horizontal 
interface capability for large storage units and drawer storage 
units. Adapting horizontal rail shall be adjustable vertically in 1" 
or less increments and shall be made of steel or extruded 
aluminum. 
12. (A stacking frame shall be available which will increase the height 
of an existing frame by a nominal 16" without removing the frame 
from adjacent componentry.   The stacking frame shall be 
constructed of a minimum of 16 gauge steel and shall be load 
bearing. 
13. Frames shall be available with pre-attached baseline junction 
boxes for hard wiring to decrease electrical installation time. 
b. Access Panels  
1. Access panels shall close off the interior and exterior chase of the 
modular open frame, and shall be available in several sizes and 
variations to allow maximum accommodation of the nurse station's 
requirements. 
2. Access panels shall be available in plastic covered, tool-
supporting, fabric covered, marker board, tackable, open pass-
through, and beltline wire management. Access panels for the 
wheelchair access module shall be fabricated from high-pressure 
.05 inch plastic laminate over 7/8-inch particle board core with hpl 
backer board on the underneath side.  Access panels shall also be 
available that have a finish that is produced by using the Powder 
Coated Process (epoxy resin paint with a metal substrate). 
3. Access panel shall be easily removed without the need for tools 
and permit nurse station equipment to be serviced from the outside 
of the nurse station without interfering with staff personnel 
utilizing the nurse station. 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for High End Modular Nursing Station  
Admn/Tender/13/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
c. Modular counter tops  
1. 
Modular counter tops shall be available in lengths of 12 inches to 
96 inches and a width of 16 inches.  They shall be fabricated from 
1 1/8-inch particle board and shall be covered with .05-inch high-
pressure plastic laminate with extruded vinyl edge banding that 
has been adhesively applied. They shall be available in 90 degrees 
corners, 135 degrees corners and linear.  
2. 
Modular counter top supports shall be available in lengths to 
match the individual frame widths.  They shall be fabricated from 
painted steel and shall have two fluorescent fixtures with lamps in 
each support module to illuminate both sides of the frame.  The 
fixtures shall be pre-wired and separately switched and shall have 
an acrylic lens cover to diffuse the light.  The entire counter top 
support shall be UL listed and be capable of being connected to an 
emergency power source. The manufacturer of nurse stations shall 
be responsible for making electrical connections between each 
counter section.  Final electrical connections to the building source 
shall be made by the general contractor. 
3. 
Counter tops shall be ADA compliant. 
d. Work surfaces  
1. Work surfaces shall be available in 24- or 30-inch depths and 
widths from 24 inches to 72 inches. They shall be fabricated from 
high-pressure .05-inch plastic laminate over 1 1/2-inch particle 
board core with hpl backer board on the underneath side with 
squared edged.  They shall hang from both sides of the support 
structures and be adjustable up or down in 1-inch increments. 
Please refer to the equipment drawings for specific finishes and 
sizes. 
2. Corner work surfaces shall be available in at least two sizes.  
They shall be fabricated from high pressure .05-inch plastic 
laminate over at least 1 1/8-inch particle board core with hpl 
backer board on the underneath side with squared edge.  They 
shall be hung from both sides of the support structures and be 
adjustable up and down in 1-inch increments.  The underside of 
the corner work surface shall be predrilled holes for suspension of 
keyboard tray. 
3. The wheelchair access module work surface shall be extended 
continuously across the open frame and has a depth of 34 to 40 
inches and a width of 48 inches.  The work surface shall be 
fabricated from high-pressure .05-inch plastic laminate over at 
least 1 1/8-inch particle board core with hpl backer board on the 
underneath side with squared edge.    The work surface shall hang 
from any of the support structures and be adjustable in 1-inch 
increments from 29 to 34 inches and shall not extend beyond the 
countertop. 
4. Sink-adaptable work surfaces shall be designed to accommodate 
single and double-bowl sinks in commonly used sizes.  They are 


--- Page 13 ---
Tender for High End Modular Nursing Station  
Admn/Tender/13/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
used primarily on wall strips, and shall have solid sides and front 
to conceal plumbing hardware.  Each sink-adaptable work surface 
shall a chemical and stain resistant laminate and be finished with 
a protective PVC 1 5/8 -inch backsplash. 
e. Storage units  
1. Storage units shall be manufactured in a variety of heights, 
depths, and widths and shall hang from both sides of the 
support structures and be adjustable up and down in 1-inch 
increments.  Storage units shall include open shelves, 
equipment physiological monitor shelves, and closed storage 
shelves with lockable doors, patient chart shelves with 
adjustable dividers, lockable lateral files, and coat bar with 
shelves.   
2. A variety of pedestals that suspend under the counter, 
stationary and mobile shall be available to support the 
medical staff.  The drawer fronts on the pedestals must be 
available in a variety of styles including one design that will 
support ADA compliance. 
3. Sink storage units shall be freestanding with built-in levelers 
and are attached to a panel.  The back of the unit shall be open 
to provide access to the utilities.  The unit shall be available in 
four widths from 24" to 60".  The unit shall have an integral 
backsplash and kickbase. The doors and outside panels of the 
unit shall be of a high-grade laminated finished particle board.  
The unit shall have a chemical and stain resistant laminated 
top with an integral backsplash.   
f. Organizing tools  
1. A variety of organizing tools shall be available which hang 
from equipment support tiles without the use of tools.  
Components shall include diagonal paper trays, horizontal and 
vertical paper trays, at least three sizes of form trays designed for 
healthcare forms, shelves, tackboards, day calendars, tape 
dispensers, card files, document stands, telephone trays and 
message holders.  They shall be adjustable up or down in 1-inch 
increments without the use of tools.   
G. Electrical  
1. Low-voltage, data telecommunications cabling and 
both types of electrical distribution systems shall be 
accessible at both baseline and work surface levels. 
2. The wheelchair access module shall provide for the 
continuity of wire management service across this 
module. 
3. Baseline wire management side covers must be 
securely hinged for easy access to cables and electrical; 
these covers must include receptacle and cable access. 
4. The system's electrical and telecommunications cables 
must be capable of running from partial-height to full-


--- Page 14 ---
Tender for High End Modular Nursing Station  
Admn/Tender/13/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
height walls and back again using standard product and 
installation procedures. 
5. A cable management tile shall be available to provide a 
minimum cross section of 12 square inches to 
accommodate monitoring cables and electrical conduit 
up to and including seven  3/4" or thirteen 1/2" 
diameter conduit with a minimum  7" bend radius at 90 
degree corners. 
6. The installation of the telephone, data communication 
cabling, and fiber-optic cabling will be installed by the 
general contractor or owner. 
H.     Locks and keying. 
1. Key all locks differently. 
2. Furnish each lock with two keys. 
I. 
 
Finish 
Colors shall be selected from manufacturer's standard line. 
Colors may be specified to identify areas for materials management. 


