--- Page 37 ---
 Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/NAG/NAT/TM/GTE/23-24/13    Date:-14/12/2023 
 
Page 37 of 60 
 
 
 
Technical Specifications: Molecular Lab for Individual Donor Nucleic Acid 
Testing for TTI Markers on Turn-Key Basis 
Part-1: Molecular System and Consumables for TTI Markers 
1. Molecular System should be fully integrated and fully automated Walk away compact 
system. 
2. Test Assay menu should cover at least following viral TTI markers by Polymerase 
Chain Reaction Technology or Transcription Medicated Amplification (TMA) 
Technology. 
 HIV-1 (Group M, N, O) 
 HIV-2 
 HCV (genotypes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6.)  
 HBV (genotypes A, B, C, D, E, F, and G.) 
 
3. The sensitivity of assay at 95% LOD should be at least: 
 HIV – 1: 30 IU/ml 
 HCV : 10 IU/ml 
 HBV : 5 IU/ml 
4. Samples will not be mixed/pooled prior or during the testing process. Each sample will 
be tested individually. 
5. Amplification process should not be inhibited by any commonly used anticoagulants. 
6. Fully integrated and fully automated Molecular System should have compact, all-in-one 
system from a single manufacturer with a smaller footprint.  
7. System should perform automated nucleic acid target capture or nucleic acid extraction, 
amplification, and detection all in a single chamber and single tube to minimize sample 
handling and any chances of contamination. 
8. Throughput of the System should be minimum 250 individual samples in 8 hours and 
400 individual samples in 12 hours. 
9. System should process and obtain on-demand results for high priority samples with 
STAT testing ability. 
10. System should Provide programmable system maintenance and priming during labs off 
hours 
11. System should offer 24-hour calibrator and control stability.  
12. System should perform continuous processing of samples and continuous access of 
result with random access capability. 
13. System should have built-in process controls for sample and results integrity. 
14. System Should have full sample traceability with positive sample identification through 
barcode and manual options  
15. Uptime should be more than 95% 
16. Bidder will have to maintain the ancillary items during the entire period of contract. 
17. Quoted model should be installed in at least three Govt. blood banks for last year years 
and Bidder has to enclose the satisfactory certificate from at least three Govt users 
18. Multiplex Assay to detect HIV 1&2, HBV and HCV in plasma by running Nucleic 
Acid Amplification Test. 
19. Test procedure is able to target & amplify two separate regions of HIV-1 genome. 


--- Page 38 ---
 Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/NAG/NAT/TM/GTE/23-24/13    Date:-14/12/2023 
 
Page 38 of 60 
 
20. Internal control is added to each specimen in the first step of the assay to ensure assay 
integrity is maintained throughout the process.  
21. Test kit should consist of all the necessary reagents and chemicals required for the 
whole assay procedure. Each kit contains positive and negative calibrators, internal 
control samples, primers, probes, enzymes, reagent buffers and all other reagents 
needed for the target capture, amplification and detection of HBV DNA, HCV RNA 
and HIV RNA.   
22. Testing protocol should be validated and the quoted molecular system should be 
approved for highest available accuracy and precision for the detection of HBV, HCV 
and HIV 1 & viral markers in donor plasma or serum either through Bureau of Indian 
Standards (BIS) and CDSCO or  US FDA for blood donor screening 
23. Assay kits should have necessary approvals from CDSCO India. 
24. The bidder is required to provide proven data on analytical sensitivity, specificity, 
reproducibility, repeatability and other relevant parameter of assay performance. 
25. Monthly QC for all the parameters to be provided by the vendor 
26. Technical Staffs to operate the system should be provided by the Vendor (adequate) 
27. Monthly Consumables such as gloves, aprons, cartridges etc should be provided by the 
Vendor 
28. Vendor must ensure 24 hrs machine down time in case of breakdown 
29. Vendor must quote the cost of complete set of all routine tests including start up and 
shut down consumption of reagents required by the system. 
30. Vendor must quote for all the reagents, chemicals and consumables required to run the 
fully integrated and fully automated NAT system. 
31. During the finalization of reagent contract, vendors must bear cost of full reagent 
wastage owing to invalid results or other reasons.  
32. The 5 years CMC should be included in the PAC with first five years of warranty on 
the instrument. 
33. The initial 1000 test consumables free of cost and freeze the cost of the consumables to 
be used during the testing for the next 5 years. No increment will be allowed under any 
circumstances and a declaration from the original manufacturer/company should be 
provided along with tender document. 
34. Demonstration and onsite training of staff upto their satisfaction by application experts 
is an absolute must. 
Part-2: Ancillary Items: Molecular Lab for TTI Markers 
1. Deep Freezer (-15 to -35 C): minimum 300 L, Qty: 1 
2. Refrigerator (2-8C): minimum 300 L, Qty: 1 
3. Swing Out Centrifuge: 1 
4. Micropipette: 2 
5. Desktop Computer & UPS: One Set 
6. All In One Printer: 1 
7. Temp & Humidity Indicator: 4 
8. Laboratory miscellaneous plastic ware: As per the requirement. 
9. Office Chairs: 2 
10. Pen drives-2 
11. Internet connection/modem:1 


--- Page 39 ---
 Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/NAG/NAT/TM/GTE/23-24/13    Date:-14/12/2023 
 
Page 39 of 60 
 
12. Air Curtain – 1  
13. UPS for the Equipment (with voltage stabilizing capability and back up supply for at 
least 2 hrs with full load 
Note: Requirement of ancillary items may differ in terms of quantity/volume with the quoted 
molecular system/model/brand. Hence the bidder is required to quote ancillary items as per the 
need of the quoted molecular system.  
Bidder is requested to quote the price in the price bid accordingly. 
 Bidder will have to maintain the ancillary items during the entire period of contract. 
 Uptime should be more than 95% 
 
Part-3: Partial Turnkey project for Molecular Lab-TTI MARKERS 
1. HVAC:- 
Hi-Wall Split AC - Supply, Installation, testing & commissioning of all-weather Hi 
Wall Split Unit for the following capacity with refrigerant piping 
Make: Carrier/Bluestar/Voltas/better or Equivalent. 
PPU - Make: AAF/Freudenberg/Terra/better or Equivalent 
Exhaust Fan - Make: AAF/Freudenberg/Terra/ better or Equivalent 
Fan Filter Unit with control unit & all standards accessories (Including HEPA Filters) - 
Make: AAF/Freudenberg/Terra/Equivalent 
Drain Piping with insulation - Make: Astral/Ashirvad/better or Equivalent 
Ducting - Make -JINDAL/TATA / EQUIVALENT (In case of flexible duct twin 
coating is required) 
2. Electrical: - 
Electrical Accessories: Electrical Power switch socket unit of following rating. 
 5/15AMP Single Phase; Make: Legrand/GM Modular/Havells/ Better or equivalent 
 Electrical Cabling In between Light Module & Switches with suitable size copper 
conductor cable.; Make: Havells/ Finolex/ Equivalent. 
 PVC Conduits for cabling 
 Electrical panel for the MCB Housing of suitable ratings along with Neutral 
connector and GI plating for Earthing. Make: Havells/ Legrand/ Schnieder / Better 
or Equivalent 
 Electrical wirings of suitable thickness from the main incomer to the electrical 
panel and for parallel routing of all the subsystems inside the lab along with 
conduits and junction boxes. Make: Havells/ Legrand/ Schnieder / Better or 
Equivalent 
 2'x 2' fluorescent CFL light fixtures with power coated housing compatible to 
cleanroom conditions. (3x36watts). Make: Philips/Havells 
3. INTERIORS: - 
 Clean room False Ceiling: Non-Walkable double skin false ceiling of 50mm thick 
with PC GI sheet of 0.5mm thick on both sides with 16 kg/m3 density EPS filling. 
Make: PPGI or better 
 Clean room Wall panel: Wall panel of 100mm thick with PC GI sheet of 0.5mm 
thick on both sides with 16 kg/m3 density EPS filling with inbuilt risers Make: 
PPGI or better 
 Single/Double Doors-46mm thick (Inclusive of VP -500x750mm, D-Handle With 
Push Plate, Non CDC, Lock & Key); Make: PPGI or better 
 View Glass Double Glazed, 1000mm x 1000mm-50 mm thick 


