--- Page 45 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1158/22/GTE 
 
45
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – VII  
                     Specification for ENT Navigation System 
Sn 
Description 
1 
System Specifications 
a The system should be easy to set up, user friendly, Intuitive and should work under Windows/ Linux/Unix 
operating system environment. 
b 
The system should be a single cart portable system with wheels so can be easily moved in the OT enviroment and 
 Dimensions of  system should be around : 250 mm x 250 mm x 180 mm , and should be virtually zero footprint 
in OT 
 
c 
The system provides portable iPad Navigation 
• Remote Control (recordings, interactions, additional screen) ,   Patient Management  
• Navigation screen 
d The display should be of full HD resolution of 1920X1080  with monitor size 26" or more. 
e The system should have Rapid data transfer directly to the navigation station with the option of USB 3.0 port for 
direct data import and also have direct and seamless integration with the hospitals PACS system 
f The system should have facility to load patient data into the system through CD or DVD, USB and PACS. 
g The system should have Wireless or wired options available for connecting to hospital PACS system. 
h The wireless options should be provided with inbuilt security features such as firewall, encryption and antivirus. 
i The system should have password protection so  only authorised user can access the systemsoftware. 
j The system must work on electromagnetic technology and  it must have electromagnetic based dynamic 
referencing so that registration is not lost even if the patient moves and helps navigate malleable instruments. 
k The system should provide emitter which can be placed under the patient head or can be mounted on the side bed 
rail or sensor can be integrated  into headrest for OR table 
l The system should have inbuilt UPS or should provide external UPS with backup of upto 5minutes incase of 
power supply failure. 
m The system should have enough storage space for accessories and should be easily accessible or should provide 
trolley for storing the accessories. 
2 ENT Navigation Software Specifications 
a 
The ENT navigation software should be user friendly, easy to use and should have capability to alter workflow as 
per surgeon preference. 
Additional Option  Ear Navigation Software to support Ear indications, e.g.transmastoidal surgery or endoscopic 
ear surgery  
b The software should allow to create multiple surgeon profile and set procedures and settings as per the surgeon 
requirement. 
c The software should allow DICOM images in Axial, Sagittal or Coronal planes and should be reconstructed as 
3D images and advanced planning can be done on any plane which should be adapted to all planes automatically 
d The software should have Image merge option in order to merge CT and MRI images and use them during 
navigation as per surgeons choice. 
e The software should have advanced 3D model building functions which are user friendly. It should have 
automatic tumor building function using seed points. 


--- Page 46 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1158/22/GTE 
 
46
 
 
f The software should have option to feature to view orthogonal, axial, coronal and orthogonal cut planes which 
allows sectional view of 3D models. 
g The software should have option to use surface trace based registration and touch based using fiducially or 
anatomic landmark based registration and if required combination of surface and touch registration. 
h The software should auto detect the fiducials and guide towards touch based registration by default. 
i The software should display the area of accuracy with the help of sphere or number matrix and it should show 
which area is not covered during registration inorder for the surgeon to modify registration if required. 
j The software should be capable of storing previous registrations for that patient. Registration should be recovered 
even if system switches off. 
k The software should have facility to store screenshots taken during procedure as well as record the navigation 
screen for about  30minutes or external video recording should be provided if it is not inbuilt in the system. 
l The software should have option to perform Standard FESS, Endoscopic Skull base, Coronal flaps and other 
Skull base procedures. 
m The software should have option to view endoscopic or microscopic video on the screen 
n The software should be ready to navigate navigable 0 degree, 12 degree and 40 degree debrider blades. 
o The software should have virtual endoscopic view feature to view 3D models. 
p The software should have capability to store registration restore points to regain registration during the procedure 
to save time in case the refrence is shifted. 
3 ENT Navigation Instruments and accessories 
a The system should be provide with flat pannel electromagnetic generator which can be positioned under patient 
head and / or the system should be provide which can be integrated into head rest for OR tables 
b 
The system should be provide with the ENT instruments set of malleable instruments with an outer diameter 
down to 0.8 mm  which are navigable under electromagnetic technology.The portable navigation provides a  
 
 
The system provides a navigated GuideWire with navigation sensor at the tip for the Balloon sinuplasty 
systems and flexible scopes 
c The instruments must include but not limit to a straight probe, straight suction, 90 degree curved suction, 70 
degree curved suction and ostium seeker. 
d The instruments must be autoclavable sterilised for multiple use and should be covered under warranty. 
e 
The instrument consumables required for navigation should be provided along with the system sufficient for 
about 10 surgeries 
 
f Navigation sensor at the tip of the navigation instruments (to enable intra operative bending without  
 new calibration ) 
g They system should have pediatric friendly reference frame  suitable for coronal flap surgeries. 
h The system should allow connecting upto 4 or more instruments at the same time and navigate them as required. 
i The system should also have an option to  include automated calibrated Blades for Navigation. The system 
should be provided with 3 navigable debrieder blades. 
j Storage device of 1tb-2 & 2 tb-2 
 
k Pointer instruments for Sinus surgery and Plastic reconstruction with:diameter 1.5 or 2.8 mm malleable 


--- Page 47 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1158/22/GTE 
 
47
 
 
l Pointer instrument for Ear surgery with:diameter 1.5 mm 
m Flex Tube (navigated suction and irrigation tubes): 
n Pointer Shell (navigated adapter for rigid cylindrical instruments), e.g. shaver  blades:For diameters 3 or 4 or 
5mm or should offer a universal Pointer Shell e.g Shaver blade with other manufacturer can be used . 
o 
Systems should be consisting with 2 nos Patient Tracker , 4 nos Instrument Tracker , 1 no Non-Invasive Patient 
Tracker ,  2 nos, BLADE  Curved 4mm  , 2nos BLADE  Straight  4 mm , 1 no Navigation Pointer,  
1 no Skull Mounted Patient Tracker, 1 set Fiducial Markers 100 Pack 
 
4 
Support Specifications 
a Company should provide proper training on the system for surgeons and technicians at the hospital. 
b System should be provided with the operating manual. 
c Company should provide high quality after sales service. 
d Company should provide BIS/" USFDA & European CE" clearance certificate 
e 5 years CMC and 5 years warranty is required including all accessories 
f System should be BIS/ISO/European CE/USFD Approved certificate both standards should be attached with 
tender 
g Training for user department, doctors and staff should be provided as per the satisfaction of buyer. 
h Trolley with wheel from the same manufacturer & storage box for all accessories. 
 
 
* Specification 1 (c) (ipad navigation) is optional. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


