--- Page 15 ---
Tender No.- AIIMS/BPL/HS/CARDIOLOGY /2024/PAC/017 
 
Page 15 of 28 
 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
 
Tender for Procurement of “Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Machine” for  
Department of 
Cardiology under PAC mode at AIIMS Bhopal 
 
Technical Specifications 
 
Sl. No.            Technical Specifications for Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Machine 
1. 
The OCT machine should be fiber optic based and capable of acquiring and displaying high 
resolution real time live optical images of the coronary artery using infra-red light. 
2. 
The system should be provided with a console that can display live and reference images. 
3 
System should be able to perform automate4d pullback. 
4. 
System should be able to pull back the catheter to a distance of at least 50 mm within 3 
seconds. It should be able to acquire at least 180 frames per second with at least5 
frames/mm. 
5. 
System should be provided with a Drive motor and optical controller (DOC) for integration 
with the console. This should have bedside controls for imaging functions. 
6. 
It should be provided with a DOC holster that can be clamped to cath lab bed rail. 
7. 
The system should be also able to perform coronary physiology measurement including FFR. 
All relevant accessories should be provided with machine. 
8. 
It  should be possible to set up coronary physiology measurements wirelessly. 
9. 
System should be able to identify luminal structures such as external elastic lamina 
automatically and perform automated analysis of luminal size and diameters. 
10. System should be able to detect calcium automatically and display relevant parameters. 
11. System should be able to display coronary stent implant related parameters such as stent 
apposition and expansion. 
12. System should be able to compare pre and post stent implant parameters 
13. System should be able to analyse  stent implant zone. 
14. System should be able to bookmark user defined sites. 
S.No. 
OEM 
Description   
Qty 
(No.) 
 
 
 
 
01 
 
 
 
 
M/s  Abbot Medical, USA 
 
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) 
Machine 
 Accessories:- 
1) Coronory OCT 
 catheters:- Qty-15 
2) FFR Process Wire:- Qty-05 
3) Brand Name- OPTISTM Integrate 
Next Imaging System 
4) Model No.- 1014933 
 
 
 
 
01 Set 
The required in-situ works like Electrical/Plumbing/Civil Works and any accessories, if required for Equipment 
installation, will carried out and borne by the OEM/Authorized Vendor/Agency, and for this purpose no extra 
payment, whatsoever will not paid by AIIMS Bhopal to any Agency, means the supplier agency deal the 
Equipment, supply and Installation work on “turnkey basis”.  


--- Page 16 ---
Tender No.- AIIMS/BPL/HS/CARDIOLOGY /2024/PAC/017 
 
Page 16 of 28 
 
15 System should be able to co-register OCT data on cardiac catheterization laboratory system. 
16. System should be able to display live angiographic data and co-registered data on Cath Lab 
system. 
17. System should be  provided with two monitors (≥ 17 inches) for operator and physician 
review. 
18. System should be DICOM compatible. 
19. It should be possible to share OCT image on Cath lab monitor. 
20. System should be able to import and export data. 
21. System should have the latest stage-of-art technology including Artificial Intelligence (AI). 
22. System should have a comprehensive 5-years warranty and 5-years CMC. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 


