--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Patho/18/01/ /OT 
 
Page 18 of 22 
 
Technical Specification for Automated Semen Analyzer: 
1. 
The system should be a complete automated system for reporting of sperm 
count, sperm motility, vitality, viability, sperm morphological measurements, 
biochemical measurements, DNA fragmentation, nuclear protein assay & 
antisperm antibody – IgG & IgA. 
2. 
The system should offer high-end performance all the while maintaining its 
ease of use. The manufacturer should offer all the reagent kits & consumables 
necessary for the tests. 
3. 
There should be facility to calculate mean value of different forms of sperm 
velocity. 
4. 
There should be facility for rapid analysis for one or several trials at a time 
based on CUDA computing by evaluation of 100 sperms within 2-3 min.  
5. 
The system should show adherence to latest WHO based standard 
classification norms with molecular level testing of DNA fragmentation with 
inner core diameter & outer core thickness with ratio. 
6. 
The system should have facility of integration with patient database for 
complete reporting and data for patient registration, samples collection, and 
slide preparation. This must be supported by individual barcode. 
7. 
Facility of storage of image, videos or sequences for archiving or future 
verification is a must for every patient analysis. 
8. 
Should have customizable reporting via user defined report templates. 
9. 
CASA Software for sperm motility analysis should give automated results for 
sperm conc, motility analysis and should have facility to record agglutination, 
non-sperm element & pus cells. 
10. 
Analysis of multiple fields / multiple species should be available. 
11. 
Macros for different sperm types/ sample conditions should be available. 
12. 
Facility for determination of % progressive motility, non-progressive motility, 
sperm counts and concentrations should be available. 
13. 
Facility for determination of linear and curvilinear velocities should be 
available. 
14. 
Facility for determination of velocities- VCL, VSL, VAP, ALH, Linearity, STR, 
BCF, DNC, DNM & wobbling should be available. 
15. 
Facility for automated morphology measurements with display of sperm 
parameter i.e. head, length, width, regularity, % acrosome, neck width, 
insertion & no. of tail & length of tail should be available. 
16. 
Classification of detected features into user definable classes using a 
combination of any measurement parameters including biomarker like 
fructose, zinc, and alpha-glycosidase should be available. 
17. 
There should be facility for transfer of all data/results to MS excel, word or pdf. 
18. 
In built report generator for generating custom reports complete with data 
tables, histograms, images & videos should be available. 
19. 
All data should be stamped with date, time, and magnification and calibration 
information. 
20. 
All-in-one system should be supplied with branded computer system with 
window 10 or more to support application and camera Interface, 2 GHz multi 
core i7 processor, 2TB hard drive, 16 GB RAM, DVD+RW, USB 3.0 and HDMI 
port, 24” TFT/ LED Monitor (1920 x 1200), wireless keyboards, mouse, and 
appropriate barcode reader along with multifunctional color laser duplex 


--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Patho/18/01/ /OT 
 
Page 19 of 22 
 
printing printer with consumables (2 cartridges) with 2000 sheets of A4 size 
paper should be provided. 
21. Microscope should be Nikon/ Olympus/ Carl Zeiss Axio lab AI Phase Contrast 
Trinocular positive phase contrast microscope with fluorescence attachment 
with suitable filter, camera adapter, 4 X, 10x phase, 40X, 100x plan-achromat 
objectives, wide field eyepiece with 20 a field of view, halogen illuminator with 
30 w respectively suitable for semen sample analysis, with ‘c’ mount camera 
adaptor.  
22. The camera should be Hi Speed shuttered USB 3.0 camera for Sequence 
capturing with: Global shutter, color, 1280 x 1024. 60 frames/sec. CCD 
Camera to support for 60-90 Fbs/sev. 
C/CS mount USB connector seamlessly interfaced to Software 
23. The calibration, IQ, OQ and PQ of the instrument should be performed at the 
time of installation and certificates should be provided. 
24. Yearly calibration certificate including temperature calibration verification, test 
temperature non-uniformity test and performance diagnostic test within 
warranty as well as in CMC should be provided. 
25. Sperm chamber and Sperm meter with 10 μ depth not requiring semen dilution 
should be provided. 
26. Heating Stage Ambient to 55 ºC fixed to microscope stage should be provided.  
27. System should be CE-IVD or FDA or BIS approved product. 
28. Branded Online UPS of 3KVA for one hour backup should be provided. 
29. Start-up kit for at least 100 tests including all consumables (slide, cover slips 
etc.) should be provided free of cost for pH, viscosity, morphology and vitality; 
and 10 Tests of DNA fragmentation, antisperm antibody, nucleoprotein, HOS, 
fructose, α- glycosidase and zinc. 
30. Appropriate anti-vibration table with granite top of standard make should be 
provided to accommodate the instrument, computer system and accessories.  
31. Document or order copy supporting satisfactory performance from AIIMS/ 
institute of national importance (minimum one) should be provided.  
32. Support for induction and follow up training of technical staff, on-site 
standardization trouble shooting of procedures/tests to be provided by the 
company. 
33. Five (5) years warranty and Five (5) years CMC should be provided.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


