--- Page 45 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Thermal cycler  
Page 45 of 66 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Thermal cycler with compatible 
accessories 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. 
Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ 
quotation clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the 
firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS for “Thermal cycler” 
 
1.  The Thermal Cycler – Quantitative should be Peltier-based 96-well 
Plate/tube 
in-built 
to 
support: 
Gene-Expression 
analysis, 
SNP 
Genotyping, Plus/Minus Assays that utilize internal positive control, 
Dissociation Curve Analysis, Multiplexing and complete End-Point 
Assays.  
2.  The system should have 96-wells (0.1 or 0.2 mL) with 06 independent 
temperature zones.  
3.  The system should have 6 decoupled filters for Optical Detection.  
4.  Bright White LED Light Source for excitation.  
5.  Exitation/Detection range: 450–680 nm/500–730 nm 
6.  Multiplexing must be up to 6 targets and upto 21 Color combination 
should be possible.  
7.  Peltier base Heating and Cooling Method  
8.  Optical System: Optiflex  
9.  Imaging System : CMOS  
10. 
 Dynamic Range : 10 Log  
11. 
 Temperature uniformity : 0.4 °C  
12. 
 Temperature Accuracy : 0.25°C  
13. 
 System should have Block ramp rate : 6.5 C or more  
14. 
 Fast and standard run modes should be available in the system 
15. 
 Sensitivity: Detect differences as small as 1.5-fold in target quantities in 
singleplex reaction.  
16. 
 Detection sensitivity: 1 copy  
17. 
 Should have total reaction volume range of 10 uL to 100 uL for 96 well 
plate.  
18. 
 The system should allow two ways to interact and analyze your data: Web 


--- Page 46 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Thermal cycler  
Page 46 of 66 
 
browser (Cloud) – based software or desktop analysis software.  
19. 
 Application software like dedicated primer and probe design software as 
well as relative quantitation analysis software to analyze multiple 96-
well-plates of data simultaneously must be included as standard supply 
in the quoted price.  
20. 
 Should be supplied with suitable desktop computer with latest 
configuration for operations and 3 KVA online UPS system for least 30 
minutes backup for the whole system.    
21. 
 Should be supplied with IQ/OQ/PQ certificates  
22. 
 Should be FDA or CE or BIS approved product 
 
General Conditions  
23. 
 Bids should be accompanied by full technical specification of the 
model/make offered. Price quoted should be inclusive of Comprehensive 
Warranty (Including all Spares, Accessories and Labour) for 05 years 
from the date of installation. Also, the bidders are requested to submit 
their price quote for subsequent 05 years Comprehensive Maintenance 
Contract (Including All Spares, Accessories and Labour).  
24. 
 Bidders should clearly indicate the make and model number of the 
offered item. The make and model should be verifiable from the 
manufacture’s official website. (Mandatory: include URL for the quoted 
instrument in the tender document) 
25. 
 The bidder should provide a list and full contact details of Government 
institutes who are users of the quoted model.  
26. 
 The bidder should clearly specify the availability, locations, and address 
of after sales service centers for the quoted item.  
27. 
 Operational onsite training must be provided for the faculty members 
and technical staffs free of cost 
28. 
 Bidders should provide manufacturer’s authorization certificate for the 
quoted instrument  
29. 
 Should be FDA or CE or BIS approved product 
 
• 
Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description 
as per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item 
Description 
offered 
by 
Firm 
Deviation 
if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. 
Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the 
TE document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years 
from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work 
from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & 
handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty 
period by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) 
basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty 
period. 


