--- Page 38 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/BPL/ENDOSCOPY-USG/MED.GASTRO./24-25/GTE/ 016         Dated:04/09/2024 
 
 
 
 
Page 38 of 62 
 
 
 
Note: 
i) 
The delivery schedule for different sites may be staggered based on the site readiness. 
ii) 
Supplier has to submit clear documents for opening of LC to AIIMS Bhopal within 21 days of 
placement of order. Any delay will be treated as non-performance and Liquidated Damages 
shall be levied. 
iii) 
In case of multiple LC are opened in favour of multiple manufacturers, the delivery period for 
all the items under the contract shall be counted from the date of opening of the first LC only. 
 
Indigenous goods or imported goods if supplied from India (offered in INR) which are  
linked with supply of directly imported goods, are to be supplied within the contractual delivery 
period as stated in para b) above. 
 
 
 
SECTION - VII: TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS for Endoscopy USG  
 
 
 
Technical Specifications for Endoscopic Ultrasound  System 
 
1) Video Gastro Endoscope Linear: Should have following technical Specifications/features:  
 
 Should have high resolution quality Endoscopy image.  
 
 Should have built in CCD at Tip and Real time optical enhancement technology. 
 Should have compatibility with SWQ to check the liver fibrosis either in B-Mode and 
Elastography mode. 
 Should have EUS images with four or more selectable frequencies from 5-12 MHz. 
 Should have Color Doppler, Power Doppler for effective confirmation of blood flow, should 
have Pulse Wave Doppler,H-Flow mode,B-Mode and ELST mode with Strain Ratio & Strain 
Histogram 
 Should have 4 or more remote switches in scope the control body for frequently calling 
desired functions such as Freeze and unfreeze.  
 Should have detachable Ultrasound cable for easier handling, reprocessing &storage. 
 Should have lens cleaning function for keeping the endoscopic field of view clear.  
 Should have Tissue Harmonic function for enhanced EUS image.  
 The distal end should have a short rigid portion for less trauma to the patient.  
 Video scope should have FNA (Therapeutic capability).  
 EUS scope should be fully immersible for thorough cleaning 
 Depth of Field: 3-100mm  
 Scanning Method: Electronic curved linear array  
 Frequency Range Electronic probes: 5 to 12 MHz  
 Scan Range: 180 degree or better  
 Field of view: 100 degree or more  
 Direction of view: 55 degrees Forward oblique  
 Insertion tube outer diameter: 12.6 mm or less  


--- Page 39 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/BPL/ENDOSCOPY-USG/MED.GASTRO./24-25/GTE/ 016         Dated:04/09/2024 
 
 
 
 
Page 39 of 62 
 
 
 Distal end outer diameter: 14.6 mm or less  
 Instrument channel diameter: 3.7 mm or more  
 Angulation Range: UP/Down 130/90 degree or more, Right & Left 90 degree or more 
 Work Length: 1250 mm or more.  
 Total Length: 1550 mm or more.  
 Minimum Visible Distance:6mm or less 
 Should be supplied along with Leakage Tester & carrying case 
 
 
 
2)  Video Gastro Endoscope Radial: Should have following technical Specifications/features:  
 
 Should have Electronic radial scanning and offer High Resolution Image quality, greater 
safety and enhanced ease of use.  
  
 Should have short distal end diameter for easy maneuverability in Duodenum. 
 Should have Slim outer diameter for smooth insertion in to throat & P-ring. 
 Should have compatibility with SWQ to check the liver fibrosis in B-Mode &Elastography 
mode. 
 Should have EUS images with four or more selectable frequencies from 5-12 MHz. 
 Should have Color Doppler, Power Doppler for effective confirmation of blood flow, should 
have Pulse Wave Doppler, H-Flow mode, B-Mode and ELST mode ELST mode with Strain 
Ratio & Strain Histogram 
 Should have 4 or more remote switches in scope the control body for frequently calling 
desired functions such as Freeze and unfreeze.  
 Should have detachable Ultrasound cable for easier handling, reprocessing & storage. 
 Should have D-Cut design Distal end for easy removal of balloon band and to prevent 
damage to the distal end 
 Should have Tissue Harmonic functions for enhanced EUS image.  
 Video scope should have an instrument channel. 
 EUS scope should be fully immersible for through cleaning and should have detachable 
ultrasound cable. 
 Depth of Field: 3-100mm  
 Scanning Method: Electronic Radial array 
 Frequency Range Electronic probes: 5 to 12 MHz  
 Scan Range: 360 degree  
 Field of view: 100 degree or more  
 Direction of view: 50 degrees Forward oblique  
 Insertion tube outer diameter: 10.9 mm or less  
 Distal end outer diameter: 13.4 mm or less  
 Instrument channel diameter: 2.2 mm or more  
 Angulation Range: UP/Down -130/90 degree or more, Right / Left- 90 degree or more 
 Work Length: 1250 mm or more.  
 Total Length: 1550 mm or more.  
 Minimum Visible Distance:5mm or less 
 Should be supplied along with Leakage Tester & carrying case 
 
 
 


--- Page 40 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/BPL/ENDOSCOPY-USG/MED.GASTRO./24-25/GTE/ 016         Dated:04/09/2024 
 
 
 
 
Page 40 of 62 
 
 
 
3) Processor for EUS 
 
 Compact and easily transportable one cart System/Unit, ease to move on trolley.  
 Ultrasonic Process should provide color doppler, Power doppler and H-flow for effective 
confirmation of blood flow, Pulse wave, B Mode, color flow.  
 Should have Tissue Harmonic function and Elastography function available to confirmation 
of relative thickness of tissue to confirm the possibility of malignancy.  
 Should have Elastography with i-ELST function, strain ratio & strain histogram.  
 Should have S-focus function for full range focusing eliminating Manual focus adjustment.  
 The processor should be integrated for electronic and Mechanical scanning.  
 Should have SWQ for absolute value of tissue stiffness within a region of interest.  
 SWQ (Software Options) Calculates and displays transmission speed and elasticity of shear 
wave in ROI.  
 Should have capacity to record at least 1 minute to 3minutes video with its retrieval.  
 Option to choose frequency range: 5-12 MHz, by self or by adding compatible system. 
Dedicated and user-friendly keyboard.  
 Generated frequency range: Preferably up to 20 MHz  
 The keyboard should have a large LCD touch panel that allows a greater range of functions 
to be displayed at one time, backlit keys, and a trackpad for ease of use and cleaning.  
 Retrieve Image through USB port to record.  
 GAIN, contrast and STC functions for adjustment of image.  
 Should have LE reduction function to intensive signals.  
 Should have combined contrast harmonic & tissue harmonics mode (C-THE)  
 Should have persistence mode for 3D image smoothing.  
 Should have Cine Memory of storing more than 1500 frames.. 
 2KVA isolation transformer should be provided to protect the Ultrasound Processor against 
electric surge.  
 Should be supplied with EUS19/22g needles – 20 pcs 
 
 
4) Video Processor with integrated Light Source   
 
 Video processor should have in-built light source with 5 LED or more Spectrum Technology  
 Should have real time optical enhancement Technology. 
 Should have red dichromatic imaging technology an advanced. 
 technology specific for visualization of bleeding spots and deeper vessels to facilitate better 
therapeutic interventions and clinical outcomes. 
 Should have smart brightness adjustment in maintenance of contrast selectively improve 
light intensity of darker areas for better endoscopic visibility. 
  Should have Texture and Color Enhancement Imaging for better visualization and Increased 
Detection rate for Flat and depressed lesion, Pit patterns, Intestinal Metaplasia and 
Demarcation by enhancing Color, texture and brightness of image 
 To reduce mis- rates during endoscopy Video processor should have digital 12G-SDI output 
for 4K, 3G-SDI and HD-SDI output for HD image and should contain electronics for clear 
visibility of near and far objects. 
 The processor should have compatibility with Dual Focus & Flexible video Cholangioscope. 
 Video processor should also have compatibility for scope guide system for colonoscopy.  
 Processor should have feature of compatibility with Endocytoscope having magnifications of 
520x & above. 


--- Page 41 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/BPL/ENDOSCOPY-USG/MED.GASTRO./24-25/GTE/ 016         Dated:04/09/2024 
 
 
 
 
Page 41 of 62 
 
 
 Provision of automatic IRIS control and white balance free function 
 Provision of Picture in picture display  
 Equipped with automatic light adjustment facility. 
 Equipped with touch screen interface for accessing the processor settings. 
 Should have compatibility for both Monochrome & Colour CCD & CMOS scopes. 
 
 
5) 4K Medical Grade Monitor same make. 
 32-Inch with LED Backlit medical grade monitor with 4K resolution. 
 The quoted monitor should be either from the same make (OEM) or a repute make having 
Global tie up with the company of scope. 
 It should have Advanced Image Multiple Enhancer technology to produces sharp, vivid 
images by enhancing both structure and color for more detailed observation. 
 Should be compatible to route 4K video signals via a single 12G-SDI output 
 Should have multiple display modes such as Picture-in-Picture (PIP) and Picture-out-
Picture(POP) display modes 
 Should have a Clone Out function to duplicate the 4K/HD video signals as displayed on the 
screen, including PIP/POP to a second monitor, or recording device 
 Should be fully compatible with Endovision System for 4K visualization through 12G SDI & 
HD through 3G-SDI & HD-SDI in native colour gamut  
 Should have BT.2020 colour gamut 
 Certified from IEC 60601-1 
 Should have following Input 4K: 12G-SDI ×2, Display Port ×1, HDMI ×1 & out 12G-SDI 
×2 
 Should have following Output 2K: 3G-SDI ×1, DVI-D x 1 and out 3G-SDI ×1 
 Clone Out / AUX IN 12G-SDI ×1/ Any port 
 Intuitively operable control panel with LED lighting navigation 
 
 
 
6) System Trolley from same make 
 
 Space to accommodate all equipment. 
 Should have a Scope Hanger  
 Based on Castor-Wheel with locking facility 
 Should be from same OEM with built in isolation transformer. 
 
 
7) Hardware & Software (Latest Laptop, Image Grabbing Software, Printer) for report Generation 
 
Computer / Laptop 
 Processor i7 or better. 
 RAM 8GB or more & with Hard Disk 500 Gb or more with 2TB external HDD  
 19" LCD /LED monitor. 
 Mouse & Multimedia keyboard. Should be supplied.  
 Medical grade HD Software to record and edit high quality video and images. 
 Colour Ink tank printer  
 UPS with appropriate rating, if required  
 


--- Page 42 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/BPL/ENDOSCOPY-USG/MED.GASTRO./24-25/GTE/ 016         Dated:04/09/2024 
 
 
 
 
Page 42 of 62 
 
 
Note:  
 Should have 5 years warranty and 5 years CMC except accessories  
 Should be supplied with leakage tester and carrying case for all endoscopes  
 
 
 
 
 
 Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description as 
per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item Description 
offered by Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document for complete 
equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuum tic parts wherever applicable). Warranty 
period will be 05 years from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work 
from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment 
to AIIMS Bhopal 
b) In-case of complaint, and emergency number to be provided and complaint to be cognizance to 
be taken within 24 hours of complaint  
c) 98% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by double the 
downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
d) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty & CMC Period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 
(hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. 
The service should be provided directly by Bidder/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that 
the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents (if they 
have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of 
the consignee. The same will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical 
specification. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


