--- Page 29 ---
 
e-TENDER No: AIIMS/BPL/HOSP/18-19/006 
Rate Contract for Supply, Installation, Testing and Commissioning of Automated Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing System for Bacteria 
and Yeasts for Targeted Surveillance(Pg No. 29 of 73) 
 
Part-I: Technical Specification and Tentative Quantities of requested Equipment:- 
 
Tender 
Item 
No. 
Equipment Name 
Technical Specification/ Description of the 
requested Equipment 
Qty.  
(in 
No.) 
1 
Automated 
Antimicrobial 
Susceptibility 
Testing System 
for Bacteria 
and Yeats 
1. System must work on colorimetric and/or nephlometry 
technology for susceptibility testing. 
2. The system have an option for preparation of sample 
work list outside the main equipment. 
3. System should be able to process 60 Identification or 
AST Cards at a time. 
4. Each card should have an inbuilt bar-code and there 
should be no need to write/paste anything on the cards. 
5. The system must have an external bar code and there 
should be no need to write/paste anything on the cards. 
6. The system must have individual Identification cards 
for Gram negative, Gram positive, Yeast, Neisseria and 
Hemophillus, 
Anaerobic 
and 
Bacilli 
and 
AST 
(Antibiotic Susceptibility) Testing cards for Gram 
Negative, Gram Positive and Yeast. 
7. The system should have customized cards containing 
antibiotics most frequently used and prescribed in 
Indian Hospitals. 
8. The system should have minimum steps required to set 
up AST Cards. 
9. The system should have database of at least 3500 
reference phenotypes. 
10. The system use safe, self-contained closed card system 
versus open panels. 
11. The discarded consumables from the system should be 
non-bio hazard. This means the cards should be auto 
sealed by the system before discarding. 
12. The Software must have the following capabilities 
- 
Workflow management, 
- 
Data Storage, 
- 
Test Quality Control Management, 
- 
Test Result Validation capability and ability to 
detect antibiotic resistant bacteria. 
13. The system must have the ability to check the quality of 
test results and stop for validation by Microbiologists. 
Results comes with % confidence for the results 
reported. 
14. The system should have flexibility to use either CLSI 
or EUCAST guideline for AST interpretation. 
15. The system software must have the ability to alert to 
any unusual resistance mechanism including emerging 
ones. 
16. The system must have common minimum consumables 
for different cards. If additional reagent costs are 
required please supply details including cost and 
1 


--- Page 30 ---
 
e-TENDER No: AIIMS/BPL/HOSP/18-19/006 
Rate Contract for Supply, Installation, Testing and Commissioning of Automated Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing System for Bacteria 
and Yeasts for Targeted Surveillance(Pg No. 30 of 73) 
 
Tender 
Item 
No. 
Equipment Name 
Technical Specification/ Description of the 
requested Equipment 
Qty.  
(in 
No.) 
preparation time. 
17. The Supplier must state the mean time to result for 
identification for Gram Negative, Gram Positive and 
Yeast. 
18. The system should provide flexibility of auto-release of 
completed results of LIS (subject to fulfillment of set 
criteria). 
19. The system should provide flexibility for the user to set 
their own rules (in addition to the ones in the 
interpretation software) 
20. The vendor should provide upgradation system 
software free of cost whenever available. 
21. The company should provide on sight training for the 
staff. 
22. Quoted system should be in market for at least last 3 
years to ensure quality and reliability.  
 
Part II: Required Supply Delivery Time Schedule: 
For Indigenous or for imported goods if supplied from India or for imported goods directly from 
foreign:  Supply, Installation and commissioning to be completed within 60 days for Indigenous Items 
and 90 days for Imported items from the date of NOA or date of opening of LC or date of approval of 
layout drawing, whichever is later. 
 
Layout drawing for approval, valid Performance Security and Proforma Invoice (in case of LC 
opening) are to be submitted within 30 days from the date of release of Supply Order by the 
Supplier Agency to AIIMS Bhopal. 
 
For delayed delivery and/or installation and commissioning liquidated damages will get applied as 
per Penalty Clause vide Clause No. 23 given in the General Terms and Conditions Section. 
 
Note: 
i) 
Supplier has to submit clear documents for opening of LC to AIIMS Bhopal within 30 days of 
placement of Supply Order. Any delay will be treated as non-performance and Liquidated Damages 
shall be levied after the period of 90 days in case of Imported items. 
ii) 
In case of multiple LC are opened in favour of   multiple manufacturers, the delivery period for all 
the items under the contract shall be counted from the date of opening of the first LC only. 
iii) 
Indigenous goods or imported goods if supplied from India (offered in INR) which are linked with 
supply of directly imported goods, are to be supplied within the contractual delivery period of 60 
days. 
iv) 
Since the supplier is not responsible for custom clearing delays and forwarding the goods to 
consignee site after custom clearance, the time taken for the same shall be not counted for 
computation of LD. However, time taken by the supplier to rectify the short comings of any 
document for custom clearing the goods to be counted in the above delivery period and supplier is 
himself liable for clearing and forwarding items to consignee site. 
v) 
             For delayed delivery and/or installation and commissioning liquidated damages will get applied as per 
General      Terms and Conditions Section vide Clause No. 23 of this  E-Tender Enquiry Document. 
 


--- Page 31 ---
 
e-TENDER No: AIIMS/BPL/HOSP/18-19/006 
Rate Contract for Supply, Installation, Testing and Commissioning of Automated Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing System for Bacteria 
and Yeasts for Targeted Surveillance(Pg No. 31 of 73) 
 
Part III: Scope of Incidental Services: 
Installation & Commissioning, Supervision, Demonstration, Trialrunand Trainingetc.as all is the 
responsibility of Supplier Agency.  
 
Part IV: 
Site Modification Work(if any)as per details given in Technical Specification/Site requirement to be 
carried out by the Supplier Agency as per actual requirement on his own cost. 
Part V: 
Warranty period will be 60 months from the date of installation, commissioning and acceptance as per 
Clause No. 14 and 6th to 10th year Comprehensive Maintenance Contract(CMC) as per details in given 
in the Clause No. 15 in the General Terms and Conditions Section of this  E-Tender Enquiry 
Document. 
Part VI: 
Required Terms of Delivery and Destination: 
a) For Indigenous goods or for imported goods if supplied from India: 
At Consignee Site [ i.e. To, The Director, AIIMS Bhopal, Saket Nagar, Bhopal-462020 (MP) ] 
 
b) For Imported goods directly from abroad: 
The order will before Delivery Duty Paid (DDP) basis. The foreign tenderers are also required to quote 
their rates on Consignee site Destination basis by giving breakup of the price as per the Proforma 
prescribed in the Financial Bid Price Schedule. Purchaser will place the order only on Consignee site 
Destination basis. 
 
Manufacturer/Supplier/Indian Subsidiary of OEM/Authorized Agent of OEM/Bidder shall be 
responsible for timely lodgment of Bill of Entry (BOE), customs clearing, local transportation and 
delivery of all goods to the consignee site. Purchaser being applicant of LC ,will be responsible for 
providing CDEC(if applicable).The information on BoE assessment may be given to the purchaser and 
the payment of customs duty will be made within the office hours of next working day. 
 
Insurance (local transportation and storage) would be extended and borne by the Supplier or its 
Indian Subsidiary/Agent from warehouse to the consignee site for a period including 3 months 
beyond date of delivery. 
 
Note:- All Tenderers should quote Equipment/Items with following approved  
standards:- 
 Bidder 
should 
produce 
Certification 
like 
DGCI/CE(EUROPEAN)/USFDA/UL/BIS/ISI/CDSCO (which so ever is applicable for 
Medical 
Devices/Equipment/Consumables) 
certifications 
from 
competent 
Licensing/Certification authority with clearly showing validity date in respect of quoted 
item/Items. 
 Manufacturers/suppliers should have Valid ISO (i.e. ISO 9001:2015) ISO certification for 
ensuring quality standards. 
 Comprehensive onsite warranty inclusive of all spares and  labour should have for 5 years 
from the Date of acceptance and 5 years CMC after warranty should be quoted by the 
Bidder.  


--- Page 32 ---
 
e-TENDER No: AIIMS/BPL/HOSP/18-19/006 
Rate Contract for Supply, Installation, Testing and Commissioning of Automated Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing System for Bacteria 
and Yeasts for Targeted Surveillance(Pg No. 32 of 73) 
 
 Electrical safety conforms to standards for electrical safety IEC-60601 or better- general 
requirements. 
 Certificate of calibration and inspection.  
 All consumables required for installation, standardization and smooth functioning of 
equipment for 3 months period should be given free of cost along with supplied 
Equipment (if any ), the list and its monthly consumption list may also required to be 
provided by the Bidder Agency.  
 Substandard items must be replaced within 30 days times by the approved Supplier 
Agency, if any such intimation received from AIIMS Bhopal in writing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 


