--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Bronchoscopy Cryotherapy Unit                                                                    Admn/Tender/199-2/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No. 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Bronchoscopy 
Cryotherapy 
Unit 
1. The Unit should be stand-alone unit consist of a tank, a pressure regulator 
and flexible Cryo Probes from the same original equipment manufacturer 
(OEM) to perform Biopsies, Recanalization & devitalization. 
2. The Cryotherapy System should be programmable based, monochrome 
display, activation via footswitch and the minimum freezing temperature 
should reach within 5 seconds mounted on imported original  mobile cart 
with wire basket and CO2 Cylinder (02Units)  compatible with cooling 
gas - CO2 gas as coolant and provided with connection pipe for gas 
exhaust. 
3. The Unit should have a connector for single hand operation. 
4. The Cryotherapy System should be flow controlled for operating gas 
pressure between 45 – 65 bar & should have feature to count the 
reprocessing cycle of the instrument. 
5. The Cryotherapy System should have Effect Settings up to 2 or more 
depending on the type of instruments used, with a Programmable 
memory of up to 10 settings with activation from Foot Switch. 
6. The Cryotherapy System should work on Frequency of 50/60Hz with a 
line current of 0.4-0.8 Amp. 
7. The Cryotherapy System should be supplied along with flexible Probe, 
size of 2.4mm diameter x length 900 mm, 1.9mm diameter x length 
900mm, 1.9mm diameter x length 1050 mm (01 each) and should be 
recommended for low temperature sterilization system i.e. Plasma 
Sterilizer or ETO or autoclavable. 
8. The cryoprobes should be reusable multiple times. 
9. The equipments should have brand name / Model Number embossed / 
etched on the equipment, must be supported by Original Literature of the 
Original Equipment Manufacturer  with mandatory regional & head 
office of the Original Equipment Manufacturer Principal company for 
providing after sales service with a dedicated trained service engineers / 
service representatives team of O.E.M Principal company.  
10. The equipments Installation process & training should be performed by 
O.E.M trained service engineers / service representatives  within 30 days 
of supply , Installation report to be submitted on O.E.M letterhead, with 
the mandatory provision of providing preventive services visit of O.E.M 
trained service engineer/ service representative quarterly per year till 
completion of warranty period( ie 20 visits for the first 05 years) & 
further quarterly visits ( 04 visits/year) year till completion of CMC 
period. 
11. The equipments should strictly comply uptime guarantee of 95%.In case 
of technical snag / failure / breakdown the response time for the 
inspection of trained O.E.M service engineer should be within 24 hours 
and repair within 05 days, for major breakdown & repair time of the unit 
is more than a week, the mandatory provision of keeping a service 
machine till the period of recovery of breakdown of the unit, failing 
which attracts penal action. 
12. The equipments accessories & consumables should be of same offered 
01 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Bronchoscopy Cryotherapy Unit                                                                    Admn/Tender/199-2/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Original Equipment Manufacturer & demonstration mandatory of offered 
model at hospital premises at OEM cost.  
13. The Cryotherapy System should be, US-FDA/ European CE certified 
with supply order copies of at least three central government institute 
/hospitals. 
14. The system should be convenient to operate. 
The system should be with high quality and reliability 


