--- Page 52 ---
Page 52 of 54 
 
 
ANNEXURE- XV 
 
SPECIFICATIONS OF EQUIPMENTS MENTIONED IN SCHEDULE OF REQUIREMENTS:-  
SN 
SPECIFICATION  
01 
Should be modular design and have the facility to perform Flowmeter, Cystometry, Pressure flow 
studies, EMG, UPP, Video Urodynamics & Anorectal Manometry, Urodynamics and Biofeedback and 
Stimulation. 
02 
Should be supplied with Urodynamics with Air filled/Water filled catheters. 
03 
Compact and wireless approach for conducting urodynamic procedures. 
04 
The Urodynamic system should have a six channel micro-processor based compact system with a high 
resolution color monitor, two pressure channels for Cystometry, one Pressure channel for UPP, one 
pressure channel for ARM with one EMG channel and one for Uroflow.  Should be supplied with four 
reusable pressure transducer with facility of software controlled transducer calibration with 
automatic zero facility, pressure range of 1-350 cm of H2O. 
05 
Should be supplied with one wireless weight based Uroflow transducer with flow range of 0-60 
ml/sec, volume range 1-2 liters.  Must have auto record and auto zero facility for Uroflowmeter. 
06 
Should be supplied with one EMG channel & voice annotation, low frequency. 
07 
Should be supplied with Biofeedback & Stimulation for complete pelvic floor assessment and training.   
08 
Should be supplied with software and hardware for UPP module with stand for doing urethral 
pressure Profilometry. 
09 
Should be supplied with software and hardware for doing Video Urodynamics studies.  Should have 
facility for capturing sequential images and making small videos with the help of C-ARM.  Should have 
facility to store data in computer or software.  
10 
Should have facility to height adjustment as per patient level. 
11 
Should be supplied with console having core i7 or more duo, 2.5 GHz or more with a hard disk drive 
(HDD)-512 GB and RAM- 4GB, DVD Writer 18 & or more for recording of DVDs/CDs Software in 
Original: Window 10 or latest, MS Office or latest & compatible with a color desk jet printer. 
12 
Should be supplied with 19" Monitor with speakers & microphone-1. 
13 
Should have remote control facility. 
14 
Should have ICS nomogram, Purr and Schaffer Nomogram. 
15 
Should be supplied with wireless configurable remote control. (Optional) 
16 
Should have facility to perform all tests with air charged/water charged catheters. 
17 
Should have inbuilt pump for infusion with filling rate of 2 to 10 ml/min.  (Increment of 1 ml/min.)  10-
100 ml/min. (increment of 5 ml/min.)  Which is needed for neurogenic bladders. 
18 
Should have infusion volume up to 1000 ml and software based calibration control. 
19 
Should be supported with software and hardware for doing anorectal manometry with air filled 
catheters/water filled catheters. 
20 
Equipment should have Uro-Video system with facility to super-impose the bladder images on graph 
tracing and PIP with graph tracing.  Facility for Digital video recording. 
21 
The Urodynamic system should be upgradable for future with technical advances. 
22 
Should have US FDA/European CE/ISO approval. 
23 
Should have facility to compare the waveforms with standard evaluations. 
24 
Should be supplied with commode chair with funnel for micturition studies.  
25 
Should be supplied with C-ARM compatible with this Urodynamic Machine. 
26 
Should be supplied with following consumable list:- 
a. 
Catheter for water filled Urodynamics. 
 
i) 
Dual lumen catheter, 7 Fr. for cystometry- 10 Pcs. 
 
ii) 
Dual lumen abdominal rectal balloon catheter, 9 Fr. for cystometry- 10 Pcs. 


--- Page 53 ---
Page 53 of 54 
 
 
iii) 
Triple lumen catheters, Female, 7 Fr. for UPP-10 Pcs. 
 
iv) 
Pressure cuff for perfusion- 1 no. 
 
v) 
Pump tubing- 10 Pcs.                             
 
vi) 
Dual lumen catheter 5 Fr./6Fr. - 10 Nos. 
 
vii) 
Measurement Tubings- 10 Nos. 
b. 
EMG patch electrodes- 50 sets. 
c. 
Transducer cartridge with luer lock plug- 10 Pcs. 
d. 
Connecting tubing- 10 Nos. 
e. 
Air/Water filled catheters for anorectal manometry- 5 Pcs. 
f. 
Uroflowmeter stand. 
g. 
Leak Point Pressure Recording. 
h. 
Pigtail Catheter, PVC, 5 Fr. and Bladder filling set- 10 Nos. 
i. 
Rectal Balloon Catheter, 12 Fr., 30 cm- 10 Nos. 
j. 
Rectal Balloon Catheter, PVC, 2 Lumen, 10 Fr., 30 cm- 10 Nos. 
k. 
Single use pressure transducer- 10 Nos. 
27 
Should be supplied with C-ARM compatible Electrohydraulic Table, which has chair position also for 
doing fluroscopy/video Urodynamics.  Should have large perineal cut and abdominal section, should 
have minimum 300 mm longitudinal slide for C-ARM access with height adjustment. 
28 
Should be supplied with five years warranty. 
29 
Firm should quoted rates for CMC for 5 years after warranty period. 
30 
Rates of Consumables/Spares should be quoted separately and will be freezed for two years. 
31 
Perioneometer can be supplied from any other manufacturer which is compatible. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


