--- Page 19 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ ENT/ 202(III)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 19 
 
 
SURGICAL OPERATING MICROSCOPE FOR ENT SURGERY 
 
MICROSCOPE BODY: Motorized zoom magnification system with apochromatic optics, zoom 
magnification factors 0.4x to2.4x, activation by handgrip and foot control panel, with manual override. 
Total magnification range 2X- 18X or higher. 
-Internal motorized fine focusing system, activation by handgrip / foot control panel, continuously 
adjustable working distance from 200 mm to 500 mm without exchange of objective lens, integrated 
continuously variable illumination field from 60mm – 15mm or less.  
Beam Splitter should be integrated in the microscope body, without any external attachment. 
BINOCULAR TUBE: 0- 180-degree tiltable binocular tube with focal length = 200 mm or higher. 
Graduated knob for continuous adjustment of interpupillary distance from 55 mm to 75 mm. Should 
have facility for 360° rotatable, expandable and retractable as the function to increase the 
magnification upto 50 %.  
EYEPIECES: Pair of high eyepoint widefield push-in eyepieces 10x magnification with magnetic locks, 
diopter setting from -8D to +5D, also suitable for spectacles wearers. 
Stero co-observation should have inclinable Eye Pieces. 
Eye piece head should be equipped with rotatable integrated ring/adapter to enable adjust the 
eyepiece with tilting of microscope head. 
 
ILLUMINATION SYSTEM: Coaxial xenon illumination with same Xenon back up with quick-action lamp 
changer in case of failure of main lamp (350 w). 
HANDGRIPS: Easily maneuverable handgrips with adjustable keys for zoom and focus, Illumination & 
Magnetic brakes. Programming for magnetic brake for control of stand & Microscope body brakes. 
FLOOR STAND: Rollable floor stand on base with lockable castors, carrier and swivel arms with large 
reach of 1.30 m or higher, Weight caring capacity at least 18 Kg. 
Should have free float magnetic system with Six magnetic brakes Three brakes for Microscope body & 
three for Microscope Stand with, release of magnetic brakes by handgrips.  
Liquid crystal display (LCD) with user prompts, quick set up of different parameters and their activation 
at press of a button such as automatic speed adjustment or automatic brightness setting depending on 
magnification.  
System should have overhead LCD display for showing important parameters to operating surgeon. 
                                                                            


--- Page 20 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ ENT/ 202(III)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 20 
 
INTEGRATED DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA SYSTEM: Advanced digital Video camera should be Completely 
Integrated in the microscope body, suitable for connection to PC, color monitor. 
Stereo Co Observation attachment with two joints.  
USER PROGRAMMING: Programming for starting illumination, Magnification, working distance, Zoom 
speed & Focus speed for at least 8 - 9 different users.                                                                
VIDEO/ IMAGE DATA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: should have integrated video recording system (without 
any external attachment) & Still photo in the microscope stand with direct recording facility on USB 
hard drive & Pen Drive. 
VIDEO MONITOR: Colour LCD display should be mounted on Microscope stand. 
BALANCING: Microscope should have auto balance so that microscope can be balanced by one push 
button. 
Speed Focus “Microscope should have video speed focus independently. 
  
 


