--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Obstetric Simulator 
Admn/Tender/33/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Obstetric 
Simulator  
1 Maternal-Fetal Simulator complete with anatomically realistic 
mother and fetus for 2 comprehensive training in prenatal care, labor 
and delivery, and postpartum care. 
2 The Maternal Fetal Simulator should be wireless, high fidelity 
simulator with an automated delivery mechanism and maternal 
aesthetics like a real patient. 
3 The birthing mechanism should be noiseless for realistic labour. 
4 Should have validated integrated maternal-fetal physiological and 
pharmacological modeling. 
5 All maneuvers & interventions should result in appropriate patient 
response automatically 
based on underline physiology of patient without any input from the 
instructor 
6 Should be fully wireless with on-board fluids, pneumatics, and 
electrical systems 
7 Should include software licenses to support scenario writing and 
editing on any computer 
8 Maternal fetal simulator should have voice linked to labour and 
should allow upload of voice 
files in any local language 
9 Simulator should support full maternal code as a non-gravid patient 
and should be supplied with non-gravid abdomen and scenarios for 
the same. 
A: Simulator should have following features 
1 Should have realistic birth canal with vulva/perineum supporting 
accurate fetal descent and rotation - 
2 Should provide Multiple Birthing Positions: lithotomy, sitting, and 
all-fours 
3 Should allow vaginal examinations for evaluation of the cervix, 
fetal station, and position 
4 Should have static cervices representing various stages of dilation 
(closed to 10cm); effacement from 0-100% 
5 Should have palpable uterine contractions which can be detected by 
palpating the fundus 
6 Should have facility to allow Instructors to control the rate and 
duration of contractions 
7 Birthing fetus should not have any connection port at the head or 
buttocks for realistic presentation during both vertex and breech 
deliveries 
8 Fetus/baby should have open mouth for meconium removal & 
cyanosis treatment 
9 Should have a customized fetus for Leopold's Maneuvers with hard 
head and soft buttocks 
10 Should support and detect suprapubic pressure with palpable 
symphysis pubis 
11 Obstetric maneuvers like McRoberts Maneuver, suprapubic 
pressure rotation of anterior and posterior shoulder should be 
supported and detected and logged in event loop 
12 Should simulate realistic shoulder dystocia due to realistic pelvic 
bone movement and it should be resolved once posterior arm is 
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Obstetric Simulator 
Admn/Tender/33/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
extracted 
13 Internal rotations with detection 
a Should support delivery of posterior arm during shoulder dystocia 
b Should allow Zavanelli maneuver with detection and logging in 
event log 
c Trendelenburg position with detection and logging in event log 
d Left lateral tilt with detection and logging in event log 
e Vertex and breech delivery with no exposed metal parts 
14 Should have Fetal heart sounds — 4 locations based on fetal 
presentation 
15 Should have Articulated fetal body neck (with lateral neck 
movement), shoulders, elbows, hips, and knees 
16 Should have clinically accurate fetal size with tactile realism — 
5th percentile on the WHO growth chart 
17 Fetus with palpable fontanel and sagittal suture 
18 Should allow Forceps application and Vacuum extraction without 
fetal cap 
19 Should provide fetal neck traction graph to give real time feedback 
on force applied during vacuum or forcep delivery 
20 Should allow Fetal airway suctioning 
21 Fetus should have audible cry upon delivery 
22 Should display predicted 1-minute and 5-minute APGAR scores 
based on integrated maternal-fetal physiology 
23 Should simulate postpartum hemorrhaging, including Class III 
hemorrhage 
24 Should allow for assessment of uterine atony (Contracted vs. 
Boggy Uterus) 
25 Should have facility bimanual compression and uterine massage 
detection 
26 Should exhibit 
a Uterine blood released upon massage 
b Uterine massage should automatically decrease rate of blood flow 
c Uterine massage compression effect 
d Uterine inversion 
27 Should support placing an Intrauterine balloon 
28 Umbilical cord can be cut and clamped 
29 Episiotomy should be possible 
30 Should have Intact/fragmented placenta with realistic color, 
texture and flexibility, placenta can be delivered with gentle traction 
31 Should have an epidural port for realistic infusion and aspiration 
32 Should allow to recognize sign for emergency C-section for team 
training of C- Section. 
B: Mannequin should have following clinical features 
a. Respiratory 
1-Manikin should have realistic upper airway with airway 
management 
2-Should have Advanced lungs with mechanical ventilation support 
3-Should allows use of airway devices such as LMA 
4-Should Support endotracheal tubes, nasal-pharyngeal and 
oropharyngeal airways 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Obstetric Simulator 
Admn/Tender/33/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
5-Should display spontaneous breathing 
6-Should have bag-valve-mask 
7-Should exhibit lung sounds: anterior and posterior 
8-Should have realistic chest excursion & Exhalation 
9-Should allow positive pressure ventilation 
10-Should have advance CPR matrices 
b. Circulatory System 
1-Should support real 4-lead ECG that can be connected to simulator 
2-Should display 12-lead ECG simulated in software 
3-Should have bilateral pulses: carotid, radial, and dorsalis pedis; with 
controllable pulse strength 
c. Cardiovascular 
1-Should allow Chest compressions resulting in appropriate 
physiological changes. 
2-Should have advanced CPR metrics to measure the consistency of 
compressions and ventilations, as well as coronary and cerebral 
perfusion. Hand placement, chest recoil, and left lateral tilt should be 
detected and logged by the operating system. 
3-Should support electrical therapy (defibrillation) 
4-Should allow Bilateral NIBP measurement 
5-Should have realistic Heart sounds linked to the physiology of the 
patient. 
d. Nervous System 
1-Should simulate seizures with rhythmic movement of arms, rapid 
blinking, and jaw movement 
2-Should have Reactive pupils 
3-Should have facility to change the colour according to condition of 
the patient like yellow for jaundice, red in case of blood clot 
4-Should have Blinking eyes 
5-Should have live and pre-recorded speech and should also have 
ability to import customized vocal sounds into system software 
e. Fluids 
1-Should have inbuilt postpartum bleeding tank at-least (1,800 ml) 
2-Should have Bilateral IV arms with realistic flashback 
3-Should have Urinary catheterization 
C: Simulator should also have integration of augmented reality 
with responsive physiology for deeper understanding and 
unprecedented shared training experience. Should have following 
features to demonstrate the same through hologram technology 
1.Should allow learners to visualize the passage of the fetus through 
the birth canal during shoulder dystocia scenario. 
2.Should offer real-time, interactive 3D holograms of anatomy as well 
as responsive mother-baby physiology. 
3.The system should allow to obtain immediate visual and 
physiological feedback on the effectiveness of emergency maneuvers. 
4.Should have facility to elevate the holograms and walk around the 
simulator to gain an understanding of how the mother and baby 
structures are interrelated. 
5.Should allow training without patient simulator for self-paced, 
didactic learning on shoulder dystocia. 


--- Page 13 ---
Tender for Obstetric Simulator 
Admn/Tender/33/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
 
 
6.Should have future up-gradation facility for normal delivery and 
additional emergency scenarios. 
D: Patient Profiles & Scenarios 
1-Should be supplied with preprogrammed patient profiles with 
system software to write patient profiles as per training needs 
2-Should be supplied with pre -programmed clinical scenarios (at 
least 20 nos.) with system software to modify existing scenario & 
write new scenarios as per training needs 
3-Pre programmed clinical scenarios for gravid patient should 
include: 
a A normal delivery 
b An instrumental vaginal delivery 
c Fetal Tachycardia due to Maternal Pyrexia 
d Maternal cardio-respiratory arrest 
e Fetal central nervous system depression by narcotics given to the 
mother 
f Eclampsia 
g Major post-partum hemorrhage due to uterine atony 
h Breech delivery 
I Shoulder dystocia 
j Umbilical cord prolapse 
4 - Urgent Obstetric simulated clinical Experiences (SCEs) 
- Anaphylactoid Syndrome of Pregnancy 
- Chronic fetal Hypoxia Associated with Placental insufficiency 
- Oxytocin induced uterine tachysystole 
- Repetitive deceleration caused by umbilical cord compression 
- Uncontrolled gestational diabetic 
- Fetal Heart rate signal loss 
- Inadvertent monitoring of maternal heart rate 
- Major placental abruption 
- Maternal hypotension follow Epidural Block 
- Maternal Sepsis 
5 Pre programmed clinical scenarios for non-gravid patient should 
include : 
a Chronic Heart failure exacerbation 
b. Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome 
c Sepsis with Hypotension 
d. Brain Attack with Thrombolytic Therapy 
e Motor Vehicle Collision with Hypovolemic Shock 
E: Should be supplied corn complete with 
a.Wireless maternal mannequin - 01 no. 
b.Software License - 04 nos. 
c.Fetus for Leopold's maneuvers - 01 no. 
d.Abdominal for labor and post labour - 01 no each 
e.Static cervices for vaginal examination - 01 set 
f.Instructor wireless Iaptop(upgradable) — 01 no. 
g.Simulated CTG Monitor — 01 no. 
h.Delivery Table- 01 
k.Hololens- 04 
 


