--- Page 21 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/PMR/272(ii)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 21 
 
System should be supplied complete with following Orthopedic material  
68. Patients’ harnesses (adult) in four different sizes for different sized patients- 1 no each 
69. Cuffs for the upper, middle and lower legs in seven different sizes – I set   
70. Foot lifter – 1 set. 
71. The harnesses should be washable at 60°C in the washing machine. 
72. cushioning material for  back,  gluteus and  shins- 1 set 
73. Wall mount Orthopedic storage device. 
 
 
 
Size and dimensions  
74. The  unit should be compact to be easily installed in a room of size 5.5 L x 3.5 m WX 2.6m H   
75. The unit should be extendable in height to accommodate patients with more height  
76. The unit should be suitable for training of patients with height of upto 200 cm  
Certification and compliances   
77. It should be USFDA registered device with verifiable documents   
78. Should be electromagnetic compatibility Class A device (CISPR 11).  
79. The unit should meet the requirements of EN 60601-1-2., meet the protective class SK 1. 
80. The unit should be a class IIa device according to the European medical device directive 
93/42/EC. 
 
System Performance   
81. The system should be in wide use all over the world with mínimum 500 installations.. 
82. There should be minimum 5 satisfactory working installation of the system in reputed Govt or private 
hospitals in India.  
83. The vendor should provide satisfactory performance certificates from mínimum 3 users from India   
84. The vendor should demonstrate the quoted system anywhere in India at own expenses to the 
hospital doctors. Demonstration is a must  
 
B) SELF DRIVEN UPPER EXTREMITY FUNCTIONAL THERAPY SYSTEM  WITH FOLLOWING 
SPECIFICATIONS   
1. Instrumented arm orthosis with integrated weight compensation mechanism with Augmented feedback 
2. The Arm Weight Support should be based on an exoskeleton with integrated spring mechanism for Arm 
Weight Support.  
3. The Arm Weight support should be designed to counterbalance (middle length setting / horizontal position) 
- forearm weight: 0.7 kg - 2.4 kg 
- upper arm weight: 0.5 kg - 3.8 kg 
4. The size exoskeleton of the exoskeleton should be adjustable to different arm sizes of adult persons; 
minimum settings are 
- forearm lengths (elbow to handgrip): 290 - 390 mm  
- upper arm lengths (shoulder to elbow): 220 - 310 mm 
5. The exoskeleton should contain the (lockable) distal degrees of freedom for pro Supination and wrist 
flexion / extension 
6. The exoskeleton should be equipped with at least 7 joint angle sensors to detect movements in all 
relevant degrees of freedom 
7. The exoskeleton should contain a pressure sensitive handle to detect trace amounts of grasping 
activity of a patient 
8. The exoskeleton should be usable for the left and the right arm 
9. The exoskeleton should contain braces to position the patients’ arms 
10. The braces should be eudermic and washable 
11. The exoskeleton should be mounted on an electric lifting column (Adjustable Range: 400 mm) 
12. The exoskeleton should be mounted on a trolley and be movable by one person 
13. The electric lifting column should be operated by a remote control (should not be  wireless for safety) 
14. The Augmented Feedback should contain at least 20 different functional exercises or games 
15. The Augmented Feedback should contain functional exercises in a 1D, 2D and 3 Dimensional 
workspace.  


--- Page 22 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/PMR/272(ii)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 22 
 
16. The library of Augmented Feedback functional exercises should be filterable according to therapy 
goals and the joints involved  
17. The Augmented Feedback workspace for 2D and 3D exercises should be automatically personalized 
according to the physiological volume reachable by the patient in 3D. 
18. The Augmented Feedback should contain reach to grasp type exercises (involving Arm and Hand 
treatment at the same time) 
19. The Augmented Feedback should contain a user database to manage individual patients’ therapy 
plans 
20. The Augmented Feedback should automatically progress through all exercises in patient’s individual 
therapy plan, without staff intervention.  
21. The Augmented Feedback should store all therapy activities and contain export routines to access 
raw data 
22. The user database should support at least 500 Patients data 
23. The system should have facility of  automatic backup of user data 
24. The system should contain inbuilt software recovery tools   
25. The Augmented Feedback should contain assessment capabilities to quantify  
i. 
Patients’ coordination ability  
ii. 
Patients’ range of motion in each degree of freedom.  
iii. 
Physiological volume reachable by the patient in 3D. 
26. The level of difficulty of therapy exercises in the Augmented Feedback should be adjustable  
27. Within each level of difficulty in the Augmented Feedback, there should be multiple exercise levels to 
allow for gradual progression in exercise challenge.  
28. The level of visual detail of therapy exercises in the Augmented Feedback should be adjustable to 
patient’s visual or cognitive impairment.  
29. The Therapy system should be adaptable to the individual patients’ active range of motion in the 
impaired arm 
30. The Augmented Feedback should contain reporting capabilities to automatically generate reports in 
PDF format with patients’ exercise scores and assessment results over time and  with information 
about device usage for the hospital managers.  
31. The system should be operated on Normal Indian Power supply 230 V 50/60 Hz. 
32. The system should contain PC and a 24’’ screen for visualization of the exercises 
33. The system should be capable of software updates via USB stick 
34. A user training by a clinical application specialist should be contained in the scope of delivery 
35. The Supplier shall guarantee the equipment for a period of 5 years  
36. Wear parts should be contained in the scope of delivery. 
37. The therapy system should also be supplied complete with  a hand module for training in grasping 
function for patients with impaired hand functions     
38. The hand module should support a hand opening movement with a non-powered spring mechanism 
The 
hand 
module 
should 
work 
in 
plug-and-play 
manner 
during 
therapy 
sessions. 
Hand Module should also have  Augmented Feedback  containing  exercises specifically designed 
for combined hand and arm control.  
System Performance   
39. Application and efficacy of use of the unit should have been proven by minimum of 50 
studies from independent research groups in  pathologies like stroke, spinal cord injury, 
traumatic brain injury, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson and in patients with cerebral palsy.  
40. There should be sufficient Evidence available from trials with the unit showing functional  
improvement, sustained long term benefits, increase upper extremity capacity as a result of 
training with the unit . 
44 The system should be in wide use all over the world with mínimum 500 installations .  
45 There should be minimum 5 satisfactory working installation of the system  in reputed Govt or private 
hospitals in India.  
46 The vendor should provide satisfactory performance certificates from mínimum 3 users from India   
47 The vendor should demonstrate the quoted system anywhere in India at own expenses to the 
hospital doctors. Demonstration is a must  
Certification and compliances  
48 It should be USFDA registered device with verifiable documents   
49 The unit should have CE market clearance and should meet the requirements of EN 60601-1 
standards  


--- Page 23 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/PMR/272(ii)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 23 
 
 
Installation & Training 
The vendor should undertake to provide free installation and training for technical and clinical 
staff at site of installation by their engineer including operation and upkeep of the equipment.  
Warranty 
The unit should be covered under warranty for a period of 5 years  
Compatible software updates should be provided free of charge during the warranty period.  
The unit’s manufacturer should provide remote technical support and clinical support for 
questions via email and phone 
The manufacturer should provide a clinical knowledge platform with latest information about 
products, state of the art clinical research and the possibility to exchange with other 
professionals in the community. 
 
 


