--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Piezosurgery Unit 
  
 
                                                             Admn/Tender/141/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Piezobone 
Surgery 
System  
1. Should include 2 LED Hand Piece having illumination of 100000 lux, 
complete with the separate cords each of length not less than 3 meters.  
2. Should have two (02) function mode of piezosurgery and ultrasonic.  
3. Ultrasonic frequency/vibrations should be minimum 28 kHz to 36 
kHz. 
 4. Vibration amplitude of 30-100 microns  
5. Wattage power range of 50 — 60 watts for effective osteotomies.  
6. The system should be able to make precise cuts while limiting 
thermal necrosis  
7. Small, compact and autoclavable LED/fibreoptic hand piece with in-
built autoclavable cable connected to hand piece.  
8. Secure locking for cutting tips.  
9. Tip should be adjustable / rotatable so as to access difficult areas 
during surgery with ease and less strain.  
10. Should have cavitation effect for maximal safety to soft tissues.  
11. The hand piece should have internal irrigation system with no 
additional attachments for the hand piece or cord (internal cooling)  
12. Should have extremely precise irrigation flow, controlled until the 
tip's end.  
13. The working tip should have LED/fibreoptic light source which can 
be switched off in required. Should be shadow free illumination.  
14. Handpiece holder for each hand piece. 
 15. Should have two (02) dedicated perialstatic pumps for Piezosurgery 
and Ultrasonic.  
16. Should have six (06) Ceramic rings for excellent yield and no 
overheating extraneous vibrations.  
Foot Pedal for Piezoelectric System   
1. Multifunctional foot pedal should comply with IP x 8 Specifications  
2. Large pedal surface for operating/power regulating the system.  
Standard Console for Piezoelectric System  
1. Easy handling 
 2. Connectors for foot pedal, power cord, irrigation pole and ON/OFF 
option on back side.  
3. Variable power levels should have further range from minimal to 
maximum.  
4. Console should have program selection for Bone cutting and soft 
tissue decortication  
5. Peristaltic pump housing 
 6. Touch screen full function display to show each command selected. 
7. Should have auto cleaning function.  
8. Should have adequate protection features and should be able to 
automatically detect the power  
requirements as per the use.  
9. In case of any error there should be display for the reasons of error.  
Wrench   
1. For tightening the cutting tips to the hand piece  
2. Autoclavable  
Inserts:  
Should include the below mentioned insert tips  
1. Complete set of insets used in Sinus lift technique both crestal and 
Lateral approach, including  
alignment pins, physio lifter.  
2. Complete set of inserts intended to use for implant site preparation.  
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Piezosurgery Unit 
  
 
                                                             Admn/Tender/141/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Complete set of inserts used for bone/ridge expansion including 
expanders and ratchet.  
4. Complete set of inserts used for extraction of tooth and periosteal 
preparation  
5. Complete set of inserts used for bone graft harvesting and bone 
modelling.  
6. Complete set of inserts used for Osteotomy and corticotomy 
including ones to use close to nerves.  
7. complete set of inserts used for retrograde endodontics and crown 
preparation  
8. Complete set of bone expanders  
9. Complete set of inserts used for periodontal surgery.  
10. Special insert for hemisections and root amputation.  
11. Tip 0 4.2mm for sinus membrane elevation recommended for 
combined techniques.  
12. Should also include set of tips for orthodontic peizocision 
application.  
12. Implant Cleaning and maintaining kit  
13. Each kit should include a dedicated autoclavable insert tray.  
14. Each kit should include a dedicated insert box for storage.  
Technical Details   
Should be:  
• A medical grade equipment of Class Ila directives.  
• Power requirements: 100-240 V 50/60 Hz  
• Operate in our operating room temperatures  
• European CE/US FDA approved. 
 
Storage  
• The number of containers depend on the total no. of kit • Each kit 
should include a dedicated insert box for storage cum sterilization.  
Warranty  
• Should include 5 years of onsite warranty • Should quote for 5 year 
CMC after the completion of warranty. • Any future additions in 
software and hardware to the quoted model during the period of 
warranty should be provided free of cost. 


