--- Page 25 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/NCV/EMG/Physio/570/2020-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 25 
 
Specifications of Portable 4 channels Digital EMG, NCV, EP System 
 
The System hardware should consist of- 
 System should be 4 channels EMG, NCV &EP System with individual touch proof & DIN 
connectors. 
 System should be European CE with 4 Digit notified body or USFDA approved and meet 
international safety Standards like IEC and class IIB. 
 The amplifier should have USB powered and enabling the amplifier to be connected to any 
PC/Laptop and transfer data through same USB. 
 Three must be 1 trigger IN/OUT socket to connect Stimulators of third-party firms. 
 The System should be supplied with headphone for AEP, LED Goggle &17” Pattern simulator for 
VEP. 
 The System Should Have wireless/wired control panel for easy operation. 
 The equipment shall incorporate Features like full optical isolation and confirm to international 
Standards with certification authorities. 
 
(EMG) 4 Channels Specification: 
 Common mode input impedance > 200 Mohms 
 Sampling Rate – 40-KHz – 160KHz 
 A/D Convertor -16 bits 
 High pass filter form 0.02 Hz to 3KHz 
 Low pass Filter form 10Hz-10Kz 
 CMRR > 100 Db 
 Noise Level (RMS) <0.5 micro V 
 Notch Filter: 50Hz, 60Hz on or Off 
 Electric stimulus duration should be 0.05 to 5 mS, Electric Stimulus amplifier should be 1 to 100 
Ma and Electric Stimulus frequency: 0.1 to 100 Hz in Repetitive stimulation. 
 
EMG/NCV/EP Software Should with: - 
 Motor NCV with automatic marking 
 Sensory NCV with automatic marking 
 Motor and Sensory inching 
 Tremor analysis 
 Motor conduction collision and sensory conduction collision should be included. 
 F wave with Split Screen display with automatic marking of responses showing the Max F, Min F 
and F block values. 
 H Reflex, Blink Reflex, Sacral Reflex, Bulbocavernous Reflex, T Reflex, Galvanic Skin Response 
 Repetitive Stimulation 
 Insertional/Spontaneous EMG recording for unlimited duration on hard disk for 10 minutes’ buffer 
storage. 
 Quantitative EMG TEST features must be included. 
 EMG replay of stored EMG data form hard Disk with audio 
 Multiple motor unit Analysis 
 Single Motor Unit Analysis 


--- Page 26 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/NCV/EMG/Physio/570/2020-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 26 
 
 Jitter analysis for single fiber and stimulated single fiber test must be included. 
 Incremental MUNE 
 MUNE (MUP Decomposition) 
 Macro EMG 
 Short- middle- and long- latency auditory EP 
 Short- and long- latency Somatosensory EP 
 Auditory Stimulation with clicks and tones. 
 Visual evoked potentials: Pattern reversal, appearance, disappearance VEP (with Fully, quarterly 
& half – quarterly), Flash VEP, Goggle VEP 
 Should have MRCP, P300, CNV, MMN 
 Automatic rapid report generation with unlimited user templates 
 Facility of comparing patient data with normative data & to flag abnormal values Automatically. 
 Report generating to be customizable and in MS word format. 
 Must be operating on Windows 10. 
 Should have Microsoft SQL- server, MDB and MY’ SQL-server database software. 
 Facility of including the waveform & numerical data as per user requirement in patient report. 
 Provision for hard copy output of recording on a laser printer of 600 dpi resolution. 
 Dedicated control panel can function via Bluetooth or USB interface. 
 Possibility to connect a Magnetic Stimulator and able to perform the research test protocols like 
CMCT, Triple stimulation, Silent Period, IHI etc. 
 Possibility to upgrade it to ERG (Electroretinography) studies. 
Set of EMG electrodes to be supplied along with system: - 
 Surface electrodes – 2 pair. 
 Stimulating bar electrode with replaceable steel and felt stimulation pads – 1 no. 
 Ring electrode – 2 pair. 
 Ground electrode with cable (Pediatric) 
 Ground electrode with cable (adult) 
 Disposable Concentric needle electrode – 25 pcs 
 Adapter for needle electrode connection- 1 no. 
 Disposable surface electrode (set of 100 pcs.) 
 Adapter for disposable electrodes connection with Alligator Clip (20 cm) – 2 pcs 
 Gold plated cup electrode -10 pcs. 
 Jumper Electrode (Pup- jack linker) -4 pcs. 
Set of stimulators to be supplied along with System: - 
 Electrical Handheld Stimulator 
 Visual stimulator (LED goggles) 
 17” TFT monitor for VEP. 
 Auditory stimulator (Headphones). 
The System Should Be Supplied with: 
 (Branded Laptop) intel Core i5 Processer with 4 GB RAM, Network card, multimedia Speakers, 
mouse, Keyboard, Minimum 1TB hard Disk for storing 
 Laser Printer (B/W) 
 Movable trolley & Trolley bag. 
 Operating Manuals and user manual 
 


--- Page 27 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/NCV/EMG/Physio/570/2020-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 27 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety and Electromagnetic Compatibility: - 
 System should be European CE with 4 digit notified body or USFDA approved and meet 
international safety standard like IEC and class IIB. 
 Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) is provided by IEC 60601- 1-2:2007 requirements 
Fulfilment. 
 The digital System is intended for operation in electromagnetic environment. As for safety, the 
digital System satisfies IEC 60601- 1:1988 + A1: 1991 +A2 :1995, IEC 60601 -1-:2000 and IEC 
60601-2-40:1998 requirements. 
 The electronic unit is Supplied by regulated Power Supply through USB interface, it has double 
isolation and BF type work parts according to IEC 60601-1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


