--- Page 17 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/EEG-ERP/045/PHY/18/OT 
Page 17 of 20 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
DETAILED TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR 
 
EEG - Amplifier 64 Channels  
 
Input Noise < 0.5µV   
 
24 bit ADC  
 
Common mode input Impedance :  > 1GOhms  
• Sampling Rate: up to 20000 Hz per channel using Wi-fi/ Optic fiber 
connectivity 
• Built in impedance check & built in square wave calibration.  
• Digital Filters  
 
Research grade software with Online and Offline Digital filters & Notch filters      
FIR/IIR/smoothening/notch 
 
Import/Export of standard EEG Data including EDF/ASCII ; – Analysis for 
features like  Re-Referencing, Re-Sampling, Epoching, Power Spectrum 
Analysis, Coherence Analysis, marking annotations, change of sensitivity, 
printing of Epoch of interest  etc. 
 
Multiuse Amplifier: EEG/ERP/PSG/NFB should be enabled using the same 
hardware.  
 
System should have facility for measuring the values for a specific segment of 
recording by Zooming. 
 
Software should allow to prune the EEG data. 
 
System may have facility of comparing any segment of EEG with the current 
EEG by copying 
 
Waveforms freeze facility with simultaneous background recording desirable. 
 
High quality USB Camera upgradable to higher quality. 
 
Should have programmable Automatic LED Photic stimulator (preferably USB 
based), Stimulation rate 0.5 to 60 Hz, Modes Automatic, Manual and Single 
 
System 
offered 
should 
be 
upgradable 
to 
higher 
configurations 
(channel/analysis) and full-fledged Polysomnography system  
 
Application of electrodes could be gel /paste/saline/hydro-gel based & time of 
application  to be short 
 
Gel/saline & Head cap, junction/ control box & gold/cup electrodes to be 
supplied as standard     accessories 
 
Ability to call MATLAB / SciLab API directly from system & interface to 
Labstream. Export       to MatLab plug-ins such as EEGLab, Fieldtrip, EDF+ & 
SIMPLE Binary formats.  
 
Export Graph and Data output to Image/ASCII/Spreadsheet   
 
Should have LAN connectivity. View real time EEG data across the LAN 
network.   
 
Integrated EEG time locked Movement Sensor from Arm and Leg band is 
desirable   
 
Easy exporting to any storage device for reviewing in any PC.   
 
Should have inbuilt provision for complex multivariate data analysis without 
any requirement for third party analysis software 
 
Interface with LORETA / sLORETA, etc. for Source Localization   
 
2D/3D Head Maps for Amplitude and frequency mapping  
 
Ability to Re-Montage to different Reference Arrangements (user configurable 
Montages), e.g., Bipolar, Average reference, Current Source Density 


--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/EEG-ERP/045/PHY/18/OT 
Page 18 of 20 
 
 
Reports - Customized report generation.   
 
Customizable patient database with built in scheduler.   
 
Patient database management software with powerful search facility. 
 
Warranty for 3 years and AMC for 3 years after warranty period. 
   
ERP SPECIFICATIONS 
 
Keyboard Averaging Combinations for differential response patterns in ERP Analysis  
 
V.E.P. and A.E.P.  (visual and auditory) Stimulus Program with wide selection of 
stimulus paradigms- AEP/VEP.  ERP Module for stimulus presentation.  
 
Cognitive Potentials with enabled P300, N400, Mismatch Negativity, VEP, PREP 
Potentials, Go-No Go tasks, etc.   
 
Creation and presentation of image/audio/tone/alphanumeric and textual stimuli. 
Display and Editing of all Event Markers.  
 
Offline time-locking and pairing with user selected marker and events. 
 
Stimulus Delivery Chart Window & Stimulus to Response Link should be present.    
 
Should be able to integrate with third party stimulus presentation software 
 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
Should have standard Indian certification (eg.ISO-9001 etc.), optionally higher 
regulatory certificates (CE/USFDA) 
 
All standard accessories / PC/ monitor and consumables should be supplied 
including on/offsite training  
 
Training of faculty – in house 
 
Demonstration to be provided for the item before decision making  
 
Minimum warranty for 3 years and thereafter AMC. 
 
Minimum Required Computer Specifications 
 
PC & monitor for video stimulus, recording & analysis. At least 24” Monitor, i5 
processor  (latest configuration); 16GB  or above RAM; laser colour printer 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for Online Bid Submission: 
The bidders are required to submit soft copies of their bids electronically on the CPP Portal, 
using valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions given below are meant to assist the 
bidders in registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in accordance with the 
requirements and submitting their bids online on the CPP Portal.  
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at: 
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. 
REGISTRATION 
1) Bidders are required to enrol on the e-Procurement module of the Central Public 
Procurement Portal (URL: https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on the link 
“Online bidder Enrolment” on the CPP Portal which is free of charge. 
2) As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique 
username and assign a password for their accounts.  
3) Bidders are advised to register their valid email address and mobile numbers as part of 
the registration process. These would be used for any communication from the CPP 
Portal.  
4) Upon enrolment, the bidders will be required to register their valid Digital Signature 
Certificate  (Class II or Class III Certificates with signing key usage) issued by any 
Certifying Authority recognized by CCA India (e.g. Sify / nCode / eMudhra etc.), with 
their profile. 


--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/EEG-ERP/045/PHY/18/OT 
Page 19 of 20 
 
5) Only one valid DSC should be registered by a bidder. Please note that the bidders are 
responsible to ensure that they do not lend their DSC’s to others which may lead to 
misuse. 
6) Bidder then logs in to the site through the secured log-in by entering their user ID / 
password and the password of the DSC / e-Token. 
SEARCHING FOR TENDER DOCUMENTS  
1)  There are various search options built in the CPP Portal, to facilitate bidders to search 
active tenders by several parameters. These parameters could include Tender ID, 
Organization Name, Location, Date, Value, etc. There is also an option of advanced search 
for tenders, wherein the bidders may combine a number of search parameters such as 
Organization Name, Form of Contract, Location, Date, Other keywords etc. to search for a 
tender published on the CPP Portal.  
 
2) Once the bidders have selected the tenders they are interested in, they may download the 
required documents / tender schedules. These tenders can be moved to the respective ‘My 
Tenders’ folder. This would enable the CPP Portal to intimate the bidders through SMS / 
e-mail in case there is any corrigendum issued to the tender document.  
 
3) The bidder should make a note of the unique Tender ID assigned to each tender, in case 
they want to obtain any clarification / help from the Helpdesk.  
PREPARATION OF BIDS 
1) Bidder should take into account any corrigendum published on the tender document 
before submitting their bids.  
2) Please go through the tender advertisement and the tender document carefully to 
understand the documents required to be submitted as part of the bid.  
3) Number of covers in which the bid documents have to be submitted, the number of 
documents - including the names and content of each of the document that need to be 
submitted. Any deviations from these may lead to rejection of the bid.  
4) Bidder, in advance, should get ready the bid documents to be submitted as indicated in 
the tender document / schedule and generally, they can be in PDF / XLS / RAR / 
DWF/JPG formats. Bid documents may be scanned with 100 dpi with black and white 
option which helps in reducing size of the scanned document.    
To avoid the time and effort required in uploading the same set of standard documents 
which are required to be submitted as a part of every bid, a provision of uploading such 
standard documents (e.g. PAN card copy, annual reports, auditor certificates etc.) has 
been provided to the bidders. Bidders can use “My Space” or ‘’Other Important 
Documents’’ area available to them to upload such documents. These documents may be 
directly submitted from the “My Space” area while submitting a bid, and need not be 
uploaded again and again. This will lead to a reduction in the time required for bid 
submission process. 
SUBMISSION OF BIDS 
1) Bidder should log into the site well in advance for bid submission so that they can upload 
the bid in time i.e. on or before the bid submission time. Bidder will be responsible for 
any delay due to other issues. 
2) The bidder has to digitally sign and upload the required bid documents one by one as 
indicated in the tender document. 
3) Bidder has to select the payment option as “offline” to pay the tender fee / EMD as 
applicable and enter details of the instrument.  


--- Page 20 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/EEG-ERP/045/PHY/18/OT 
Page 20 of 20 
 
4) Bidder should prepare the EMD as per the instructions specified in the tender document. 
The original should be posted/couriered/given in person to the concerned official, latest 
by the last date of bid submission or as specified in the tender documents. The details of 
the DD/any other accepted instrument, physically sent, should tally with the details 
available in the scanned copy and the data entered during bid submission time. 
Otherwise the uploaded bid will be rejected. 
5) Bidders are requested to note that they should necessarily submit their financial bids in 
the format provided and no other format is acceptable. If the price bid has been given as a 
standard BoQ format with the tender document, then the same is to be downloaded and 
to be filled by all the bidders. Bidders are required to download the BoQ file, open it and 
complete the white coloured (unprotected) cells with their respective financial quotes and 
other details (such as name of the bidder). No other cells should be changed. Once the 
details have been completed, the bidder should save it and submit it online, without 
changing the filename. If the BoQ file is found to be modified by the bidder, the bid will be 
rejected.  
6) The server time (which is displayed on the bidders’ dashboard) will be considered as the 
standard time for referencing the deadlines for submission of the bids by the bidders, 
opening of bids etc. The bidders should follow this time during bid submission. 
7) The documents being submitted by the bidders would be encrypted using PKI encryption 
all techniques to ensure the secrecy of the data. The data entered cannot be viewed by 
unauthorized persons until the time of bid opening. The confidentiality of the bids is 
maintained using the secured Socket Layer 128 bit encryption technology. Data storage 
encryption of sensitive fields is done. Any bid document that is uploaded to the server is 
subjected to symmetric encryption using a system generated symmetric key.                                 
8)  Further this key is subjected to asymmetric encryption using buyers/bid opener’s public 
keys. Overall, the uploaded tender documents become readable only after the tender 
opening by the authorized bid openers. 
9) The uploaded tender documents become readable only after the tender opening by the 
authorized bid openers. 
10) Upon the successful and timely submission of bids (i.e. after Clicking “Freeze Bid 
Submission” in the portal), the portal will give a successful bid submission message & a 
bid summary will be displayed with the bid no. and the date & time of submission of the 
bid with all other relevant details.  
11) The bid summary has to be printed and kept as an acknowledgement of the submission 
of the bid. This acknowledgement may be used as an entry pass for any bid opening 
meetings. 
 
ASSISTANCE TO BIDDERS  
1) Any queries relating to the tender document and the terms and conditions contained 
therein should be addressed to the Tender Inviting Authority for a tender or the relevant 
contact person indicated in the tender.  
2) Any queries relating to the process of online bid submission or queries relating to CPP 
Portal in general may be directed to the 24x7 CPP Portal Helpdesk number 0120-
4200462, 0120-4001002.  
 
 
 
 


