--- Page 15 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Dermato/17/07/OT 
15 | P a g e  
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical Specification of Phototherapy unit (Full body) 
 
1. Full body cabinet with combination of 24 high pressure NB UVB and 24 UVA 100  watts lamps 
with double door design with standard accessories including 5 UV protective goggles and 
stable platform for convenient patient orientation 
2. Rust proof cabinet outer body. 
3. Mirror coated Lamps safety grills. 
4. Rapid start ballast / choke (without starter) with international standard electrical safety 
features. (for less power loss, does not produce heat & consumes up to 40% less current + up 
to 35% increase in lamp life) 
5. High loss Aluminium Reflector inside the cabinet. 
6. Discrete observation UV Protective window (to see inside the chamber when treatment is on) 
7. Unit / Cabinet can be remotely located anywhere up to a convenient distance from the 
desktop computer control. 
8. Built-in most recent UV software program / pre-programmed with the desk to computer. 
9. Built in UV power meters & Integrated Dosimetry control system with UV Sensors. 
10. Build-in treatment protocols, customizable, with automatic dosage calculation (The system 
with built-in protocols, automatic metering, a data storage capacity for patients records) 
11. In case of software updates, no extra charges will be tendered. 
12. Patient database with space for managing of patient records. 
13. User accountability and tracking with lamps power output & usage hours information 
14. Notepad for patients specific comments, Keyless operation. 
15. Comprehensive messaging system with voice announcements. 
16. Printable patient records (Printable reports including Device Data Report and Daily 
Summary) 
17. Open top, space efficient design with reliable cooling system. 
18. Power requirement 3 KVA (when you switch on either UVA or NB UVB) appropriate stabilizer 
to be supplied) 
19. Electronical Specification 200-240 Volts AC, (as per Indian / international electrical standard) 
20. Warranty will be for a period of 05 years with 5 years AMC after expiry of warranty including 
all the parts (excluding lamps) lamps should carry a warranty of atleast 01 year alongwith a 
freeze in pricing of lamps for 5 years. 
21. Unit Dimension in inches Width: 40, Depth: 40 & Height: 80 inches (all approximately) 
22. An on-site demonstration of equipment is mandatory, prior to approval. 
 
 


