--- Page 17 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/18/03-126/OT/A 
 
 
Page 17 of 20 
 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Specification for Supply & installation of “Fully Automatic Chemiluminescence 
Immunoassay Analyzer” for Department of Biochemistry at AIIMS Raipur 
Required Quantity- 01 No. 
Specification:  
1. System should be fully automated random access chemiluminescence’s immunoassay 
analyzer using the principle of enzyme mediated chemiluminescence’s technology. 
2. System should have assay kits of more than 50 different parameters like all hormones, tumor 
markers, cardiac markers, skeletal markers etc. 
3. The system should be capable of testing and reporting all the required parameters for Double 
Marker, Triple Marker and Quadruple Marker and speciality parameters like Anti-Mullerian 
hormone (AMH), Inhibin A, unconjugated estriol E3, estradiol etc. along with compatible 
prenatal screening software for the duration of warranty & CMC. 
4. System should be able to perform Routine & STAT assays. 
5. The Equipment should have a throughput of not less than 200 tests per hour. 
6. Should have at least two Precision Syringes for accurate delivery of Samples and Reagents.  
7. System should have facility for onboard dilution and reflex dilution for high and abnormal 
sample with automatic calculation. 
8. System should have continuous Loading of Samples and Reagents without interrupting 
analyzer processing.  
9. System should have on-board refrigeration of reagents with at least 30 reagent positions 
where at least 30 parameters can be done at one time. 
10. System should have barcode facility for reagents and samples. 
11. To minimize evaporation effects in case of reagents, the reagent bottle should be 
automatically opened and closed onboard the analyzer after use. 
12. System should have short incubation (not more than 20 minutes) and small sample volume.  
13. System should have facility to process various body fluids like serum, plasma, urine etc.  
14. System should have facility for detection of clot, bubble, viscosity, inadequate sample or 
obstruction detection for primary pipettor. 
15. System should have disposable tip sampling system/effective wash technique to prevent 
carry over.  
16. System should have on-board inventory management and must have a low consumable cost. 
Consumable cost required for 100 samples, inclusive of calibration and QC, for 30 
parameters may be provided. 
17. Inbuilt QC system to monitor the quality of result obtained. 
18. Should have the self-diagnosis and error recovery system with on board operation guides for 
efficient trouble shooting purpose. 
19. Equipment must have an integrated Water and Probe Wash system/Centrifugal Washing 
technique and Automatic reagent lever indication by Sensors. 
20. System should have Audible and Visual Alarms for all error messages. 
21. Firm should include startup kits of any of the parameters which is to be started by the 
Department each of 100 test along with calibrators, control & standard accessories for 
standardization of the parameter. 
22. The Equipment should have flexible Windows based software; LIS interface and real time 
system monitoring. Optional Bar Coding & Color Coding with State of the Art Software. The 
Equipment should be managed by a Computer and have RS232 interface, software for 
control. Date evaluation & management. Extensive QC graphics including L-J plots QC 
management. The Specification of the computer should be having a microprocessor of speed 


--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/18/03-126/OT/A 
 
 
Page 18 of 20 
 
 
not less than 3.0GHz, 4GB RAM, 500GB HDD, scroll mouse, CD/DVD R/W Drive with 17” 
TFT/LCD Color Monitor with Windows Operating system and compatible Laser jet printer 
for documentation having minimum 600 DPI resolution, not less than 12 pages per minute 
speed. Instrument should be compatible with our LIS/HIS (bidirectional interface). 
23. System should be provided with Compatible on line UPS with at least one hour battery 
backup along with appropriate Laser printer. 
24. System should store up-to 200000 test results for easy access to patient information. 
25. The price of all consumables, system configuration accessories and spare parts should be 
quoted separately unit wise and the price should be frozen for the next 5 year along with pack 
size. 
26. Power Supply - Power input to be 220-240V AC, 50Hz. 
27. Environmental factors - The unit shall be capable of operating in ambient temperature of 5-
400 C and relative humidity of less than 70%. 
28. Standard, Safety and Training - Attach original manufacturer’s product catalogue and 
specification sheet. Photocopy/computer print will not be accepted. All technical data to be 
supported with original product data sheet. Please quote page number on compliance sheet as 
well as on technical bid corresponding to technical specifications.  
29. Certification - Should have BIS/ European CE/USFDA certification. 
30. RO system if required must be provided by the vendor and the installation and maintenance 
must be taken-care by the vendor. 
31. Installation and demonstration of the analyzer, R.O. System and UPS with batteries should be 
done by the vendor. Training of the equipment to all end users with all the requested facilities 
is mandatory. 
32. Must support remote monitoring and e-service facility. 
33. Warranty period of 5 years followed by CMC for 5 years (spare parts and maintenance) of 
the Analyzer, RO water plant and UPS with batteries provided with it. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


