--- Page 18 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Optho/2559(IV)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 18 
 
ADVANCED PHACOEMULSIFICATION SYSTEM 
 Fully programmable, multi processor control system 
 Flat screen, colored display with touch screen and rotatable 
 Voice feedback for function selection 
 Should have the ability to control via footswitch and front panel 
 Should have mapable and programmable footswitch, preferably wireless 
 Memory of 10 users’ settings 
  Ultrasound 
 Should have the ability to drive high performance four to six crystal handpiece: 25-
40 kHz, piezoelectric, slim and lightweight and autoclavable 
 Should have additional feature of delivery of ultrasonic energy like 
torsional/transeversal/ellipsoidal etc. in addition to linear 
 Equipped with option of 1.8 mm, 2.2 mm, 2.8 mm size of phaco tip 
 The ultrasound and handpiece should be compatible with tips like standard 30 
degrees and 45 degrees, microtip and flared aspiration bypass tips 
 Facility of ultrasound power control in various sub modes like continuous, pulsed, 
burst and bi-modal  application 
 Should have preferably peristaltic system/ venturi or both and the facility to use 
vacuum level upto 650 mm-Hg 
 Should have ability to regulate irrigating pressure by height of I/V pole preferably 
motorized and continuous irrigation controlled by footpedal and on touch panel 
 Aspiration handpiece should have both co-axial  and bimanual attachments 
 Phaco tips should be 30 degrees, 45 degrees and angle tip 
 Should have the ability to control via footswitch, remote control and front panel 
 Should have cassette/ tube system 
ADVANCED PHACOEMULSIFICATION SYSTEM 
 Vitrectomy 
 Should have an ability to drive electric cutter for anterior vitrectomy with cut rates 
of minimum 2500 cuts per minutes with submodes cut I/A,  I/A cut with panel or 
linear cut control by footpedal 
 Vitrectromy cutter size 23 ga and 25 ga 
 
 


--- Page 19 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Optho/2559(IV)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 19 
 
 
 Diathermy 
 Bipolar coagulation capability, panel or linear power control by foot pedal and 
panel 
 Reusable diathermy forceps/autoclavable bipolar cable 
 Data storage and transfer 
  storage capabilities via USB for DATA transfer or DATA portablity 
 Accessories required 
 1.  Phaco hand pieces-2 
 2. Phaco tips - 20 
 3. Phaco sleeve-100 
 4. Handpiece test chamber - 05 
 5. Phaco cassettes/ Tubing sets -200 
 6. I/A  Handpiece – 4 ( Biomanual-2, Coaxial-2 ) 
 7.  Vitrectomy cutter ( 23 ga – 15 in quantity, 25 ga- 5 in quantity) 
 8.  Diathermy forcep and cable – 2 each 
 FDA/European CE approved 
 Comprehensive Guarantee/ Warranty for 05 years and there after CMC  
             (Including all spares and labour) for 5 years 
 


