--- Page 41 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/03-443/24/GTE 
Page 41 of 65 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Real Time PCR Machine  
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. Warranty: 5 years against  manufacturing defect  
2. All instruments should be corrosion resistant, autoclavable, BIS approved. 
3. Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ quotation clearly marking the 
Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. All the components of item under a particular serial no. will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the firms. 
6. L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central government hospitals 
like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of satisfactory working from the concerned 
government hospital. 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR “REAL TIME PCR MACHINE”   
 
Technical Specifications of Real Time PCR Machine: 
1. Real Time PCR Detection System, IVD/RUO model with gradient feature, software, communication 
cables, power cord and instruction manual, compatible desktop/laptop and 2KVA online UPS with 30 
min backup should be provided with the system.  
Specifications for base thermal cycler chassis:  
2. Memory: >1000 typical programs onboard, mited with USB flash,  
3. Dimensions: small foot print / compact size, weight: 60lb  
4. Temperature control modules: calculated & block PCR,  
5. License: yes, programming options: site-based graphical, text based,  
6. Automatic security features: password-protected folders, optional log-in, and secured mode for highly 
regulated environments,  
7. Reporting: exportable run logs, system error logs onboard. System should be able to detect a 1.3-fold 
change in gene expression.  
8. Software should compatible with latest versions of windows and IOS.  
9. USB peripheral compatibility: mouse, USB flash drive, barcode reader real-time upgrade-6channel at 
least 5 color 96 reaction modules, cloud connectivity 
10. Instant incubation: yes, sample capacity: 96x0.2ml tubes, reaction volume 10-50/100ul.  
11. Ramp rate: 5° to 6° C/sec., average ramp rate: 3.3°C/sec, minimus is better  
12. Temperature range: 4-99.9°C  
13. Temperature Accuracy: ± 0.2°C of programmed target at 90°C,  
14. Temperature uniformity: ± 0.4°C well-to-well within 10 sec. of arrival at 90°C,  
Gradient: System should have  
15. Gradient Accuracy: ± 0.2 C of programmed temperature at end rows,  
16. Row uniformity: 0.4° C well-to-well (within row) within 10 sec of arrival at target temperature:  
17. Gradient range: 30-100° C, temperature differential range: 1-24 ° C, fast setting time to uniform target 
temperature.  


--- Page 42 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/03-443/24/GTE 
Page 42 of 65 
 
18. Ensures better sample-to-sample reproducibility within a run. It also allows shortening of hold times 
which, in turn, shorten overall run times.  
19. “Snap-tight”/ “automated” heated lid design- supports low-volume cycling (1microlitre) with locking 
mechanism.  
20. Minimizes evaporative loss for reproducible results & thus preserves precious samples  
21. Whisper quiet operation. System should continue to run and complete a run if the software is stopped or 
interrupted. This prevents run data from being list in case if there is unintentional interruption of the 
software. This function is especially valuable for precious or limited samples, whereby all data is not 
lost for a run that was interrupted.  
 22. Multiple instruments can run simultaneously without disrupting lab environment, protocol auto writer 
automatically writes a temperature protocol based on user-input parameters, writes fast &ultra-fast 
protocols  
23. Incredibly simple programming option that requires minimal training for new user, reduces time spent 
on programming PCR protocols  
24. It also simplifies writing temperature protocols for reduced run times  
25. USB memory stick compatible for protocol memory expansion, protocol transfer and log file 
downloads, 26. Protects file & data by permitting storage on separate hard drives & makes transferring 
protocols from cycler to cycler easy  
27. Supports USB peripherals such as mouse and barcode reader onboard Tm & Gradient calculators  
28. Secured Mode-Protected option for highly regulated environments limits user capabilities and tracks all 
cycler events.  
29. Optical reaction module excitation: 6 filtered LEDs  
30. Detection: 6 filtered photodiodes range: 450-730nm or 6 decoupled filter  
31. Sensitivity: detects one copy of IL-1β human genomic DNA Dynamic range: 10 orders of magnitude  
32. Scan time: all channels 12 sec., single channel fast scan 3secs at least 5 gene multiplexing in single tube  
33. Warranty: 5 years. 
34. CMC- price of 5 years should be quoted at the time of tender. 
 
 
 
 Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description as 
per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item Description 
offered by Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 43 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/03-443/24/GTE 
Page 43 of 65 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document 
for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever 
applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning 
and 
Site 
Modification 
Work 
from 
the 
date 
of 
satisfactory 
installation, 
commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College. 
b) 98% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by 
double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, 
maximum within 8 hrs. The service should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. 
Undertaking by the Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 
10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents 
(if 
they have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the 
satisfaction of the consignee. The same will be in line with the training modalities as 
specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site 
Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes preventive 
maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service /operational manual 
of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory completion of Warranty period 
may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for complete equipment 
(including Batteries 
for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). 
The supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended 
in the manufacturer’s technical/ 
service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ 
year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender 
Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any 
such 
stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim for the same 
will be 
entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be taken at Net 
Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory completion of 
said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee for 5% of the cost of the 
equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 98% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 
(days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime period. 
f) During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at least twice 
in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, 
commencing from the date of the successful completion of warranty period for preventive 
maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 


--- Page 44 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/03-443/24/GTE 
Page 44 of 65 
 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the Bank 
Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, 
wherever required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be 
installed, in consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. Site 
Modification Work details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end 
of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of the 
Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The Site 
Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the 
price will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be 
entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderer’s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). 
The tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it’s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical 
equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety 
Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 
60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not 
available they should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for 
electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test 
and Development Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance 
call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management 
information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost 
technical training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment 
on site at the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be 
required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and 
CMC period 
 
 


