--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Endpoint Security Software 
 
          Admn/Tender/65/2019-AIIMS.JDH    
   
Page 10 of 18 
 
Annexure – I 
 
Technical Specifications for End Point Security Solution  
S. No. 
Description 
Compliant/ 
Non-Compliant 
1 
Proposed Solution should be in 'Leaders' quadrant of the gartners Magic 
Quadrant for Endpoint protection platform for the year 2018 
  
2 
Solution should be offered off-premise via Cloud Offering 
  
3 
The Proposed solution should be an integrated advanced endpoint detection and 
response platform designed to Prevent organizations from being hacked, Detect 
the execution of malicious code, and Respond to imminent threats  
  
4 
The proposed solution has its own proprietary scan engine 
  
5 
Solution should offer Real-time Scanning for  Local Files and Network Shares 
during Read & Write operation 
  
6 
Solution must have the capability to exclude applications that are normally 
detected as Potentially Unwanted Application 
  
7 
Solution must have the application control lets you detect and block 
applications that are not a security threat, but that you decide are unsuitable for 
use in the office. 
  
8 
Must have the incremental AV update size of 30kB or more. 
  
9 
Solution must offer the Real-time scanning that scans internet resources as 
users attempt to access them and should 
a) Scan downloads in progress. 
b) Block access to malicious websites. 
c) Detect low-reputation files 
  
10 
Solution should offer the real time protection to check the latest threat 
information from OEM online and should have the option to Automatically 
submit malware samples to OEM. 
  
11 
Solution must have the EDR or advanced EDR capability 
  
12 
Solution must offer the scan exclusion on the basis of File or Folder, and have 
the feature of using the wild cards ? and * 
  
13 
Solution should have On-demand curated threat intelligence from OEM lab 
  
14 
Solution should have Machine learning detection and prioritization of 
suspicious events 
  
15 
Solution should have the guided incident reposnse 
  
16 
Solution should offer the facility for Threat searches on the basis of file name & 
hash values 
  
17 
Solution should have the feature for automated Device isolation from network 
when the device health status turns RED/unhealthy. 
  
18 
Solutions must have the privilege to isolate device manually from the network. 
  
19 
Solution must offer device control solution with MTP/PTP category that 
includes devices such as phones, tablets, cameras and media players that 
  


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Endpoint Security Software 
 
          Admn/Tender/65/2019-AIIMS.JDH    
   
Page 11 of 18 
 
connect using the MTP or PTP protocols. Below permission should be 
applicable  
Allow: Peripherals are not restricted in any way. 
Block : Peripherals are not allowed at all. 
20 
Solution should have the option to raise the support ticket from the 
management console. 
  
21 
Solution should have the option to upload the file snapshot automatically to the 
OEM for analysis 
  
22 
Solution should offer security options to configure access to advertisements, 
uncategorized sites and risky downloads 
  
23 
Solution shoud offer the below options for Risky downloads to the user 
Allow: Allows all risky file types. 
Warn: Warns the user that a file may be risky before they can download it. 
Block: Blocks all risky file types. 
 
Let me specify: This allows you to set a number of individual file types to 
Allow, Warn, or Block. 
  
24 
Solution must have the option that allows you to choose Block data-sharing, 
Allow data-sharing, or Let me specify, controls access to web-based email and 
file downloads. 
  
25 
Should be able to monitor files when they are accessed by a process 
(read/write) 
  
26 
Solution must have the feature to conserve bandwidth by blocking 
inappropriate browsing and warns users before visiting productivity-impacting 
websites. Blocks site categories likely to consume high bandwidth. 
  
27 
Solution must offer Safe Browsing by protecting critical functions in web 
browsers. 
  
28 
Proposed solution should show the alert description along with User & Device 
  
29 
Solution should offer pre-defined administration roles to divide up security 
tasks according to the administrators’ responsibility level. 
  
30 
Solution must detect network traffic to command and control servers 
  
31 
Solution should support automated malware removal 
  
32 
Solution should support Malicious Traffic Detection (MTD) 
  
33 
Solution must support Runtime Behavior Analysis / HIPS 
  
34 
Solution must provide the Application Category, so as to block the Applications 
as required by the administrator. 
  
35 
Solution must offer the Device Control/Peripheral control, with the Option of 
Read Only, Allow, Block access to the device. 
  
36 
Solution must have the privilege to whitelist the USB device on the basis of 
Hardware ID. 
  
37 
Solution should support the time based policies. 
  
38 
Solution must have the option to raise the Support ticket directly to the OEM 
from the management Console. 
  
39 
Solution should have the option to block the website on the category basis. 
  


--- Page 13 ---
Tender for Endpoint Security Software 
 
          Admn/Tender/65/2019-AIIMS.JDH    
   
Page 12 of 18 
 
40 
Solution 
should 
have 
the 
granular 
reporting 
and 
should 
include 
Security Events (Shows all security events, such as malware detections, on your 
devices and let you filter them to generate reports) 
a) Audit Logs (Record of all activities and changes made to the system.) 
b) Policy Violators (Shows the users who tried to access blocked websites 
or download blocked files most often.) 
c) Blocked Sites Access Record (Shows the blocked websites that users 
tried to visit most often and the users who tried to visit them.) 
d) Application Control Policy Violators (Shows the servers/users that tried 
to access blocked applications most often and the application they tried 
to access.) 
e) Warned Sites (Shows the top websites for which we display a warning 
and the users who most often ignore the warnings) 
f) Blocked Applications (Shows the top blocked applications and the 
servers/users that tried to access them) 
  
41 
Solution should offer the tamper protection with the option of generating OTP 
  
42 
Solution should provide protection against 
* Prevent Ransom attacks  that target MBR. 
* Destructive Boot records attacks. 
* Prevent boot kit installation. 
  
43 
Solution must support the active adversary mitigation techniques 
* Prevent Credential Theft Protection 
* Prevent Code cave evacuation 
* Prevent Privilege escalation 
* Prevent APC violation 
  
44 
Solution must have deep learning technology with a model size of 10-20 MB 
  
45 
Solution must have root cause analysis/Threat cases for the malware incidents 
  
46 
Solution should have the flexibility of creating the policy on the basis of device 
or User. 
  
47 
Solution should offer the Security News Update in the management portal 
  
48 
Solution should be integrated with the Active Directory and should have the 
capability to sync with the  active directory 
  
49 
EDR or advanced EDR solution should have the ability to create Forensic 
Snapshots and perform detailed analysis on demand. 
  
50 
Solution must have capability to Search for potential threats on devices using 
file names, SHA-256 file hashes, IP addresses, domains or command lines. 
  
51 
Solution must have Guided investigations to  make EDR approachable yet 
powerful 
  
52 
Should be able to stop mass encryption of documents and other files on local 
disks (including USB drives) and remote shares on network drives (SMB) even 
if it happens from an (abused) trusted legitimate process 
  
53 
Should be able to monitor files when they are accessed by a process 
(read/write) 
  
54 
Solution should protect from remotely running ransomware 
  
55 
Solution must offer Safe Browsing by protecting critical functions in web 
browsers. 
  


--- Page 14 ---
Tender for Endpoint Security Software 
 
          Admn/Tender/65/2019-AIIMS.JDH    
   
Page 13 of 18 
 
56 
Solution must have EDR capability for  On-demand curated threat intelligence 
from OEM Labs. 
  
57 
Solution must mitigate exploits in vulnerable applications 
a) Protect web browsers 
b) Protect web browser plugins 
c) Protect Java applications 
d) Protect media applications 
e) Protect office applications 
  
58 
Solution should be a single agent for foundation endpoint security techniques 
with Deep Learning malware analysis, Anti-Ransomware, Anti Exploits & 
Endpoint Detection & Response. 
  
59 
Solution should Protect processes by 
a) Preventing process hollowing attacks 
b) Preventing DLLs loading from untrusted folders 
  
60 
Solution should offer the tamper protection with the option of generating OTP 
  
61 
Solution should have the flexibility of creating the policy on the basis of device 
or User. 
  
62 
Solution should offer the Security News Update in the management portal 
  
63 
Solution should be integrated with the Active Directory  
  
64 
Should be able to enforce Data Execution Prevention (DEP) to prevents abuse 
of buffer overflows  
  
65 
Should have Mandatory Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) to 
prevents predictable code locations  
  
66 
Should have Null Page (Null Dereference Protection) to stop exploits that jump 
via page 0 
  
67 
Should support Heap Spray Allocation for pre-allocated common memory areas 
to block example attacks  
  
68 
Should have Dynamic Heap Spray to stop attacks that spray suspicious 
sequences on the heap  
  
69 
Should support Stack Pivot to stop abuse of the stack pointer  
  
70 
Should support Stack Exec (MemProt) to stop attacker’ code on the stack  
  
71 
Should support Stack-based ROP Mitigations (Caller) to stop standard Return-
Oriented Programming attacks  
  
72 
Should support Branch-based ROP Mitigations (Hardware Augmented) to stop 
advanced Return-Oriented Programming attacks  
  
73 
Should have Structured Exception Handler Overwrite Protection (SEHOP) to 
stop abuse of the exception handler  
  
74 
Should support Import Address Table Filtering (IAF) (Hardware Augmented) 
to stop attackers that lookup API addresses in the IAT  
  
75 
Should support Load Library to prevent loading of libraries from UNC paths. 
  
76 
Should support Reflective DLL Injection to prevent loading of a library from 
memory into a host process. 
  
77 
Should support VBScript God Mode to prevent abuse of VBScript in IE to 
execute malicious code. 
  
78 
Should support WoW64 to stop attacks that address 64-bit function from 
  


--- Page 15 ---
Tender for Endpoint Security Software 
 
          Admn/Tender/65/2019-AIIMS.JDH    
   
Page 14 of 18 
 
WoW64 process  
79 
Should support Syscall to stop attackers that attempt to bypass security hooks  
  
80 
Should have Hollow Process to stop attacks that use legitimate processes to 
hide hostile code  
  
81 
Should give priority to system libraries for downloaded applications (DLL 
Hijacking) 
  
82 
Should have Application Lockdown to stop logic-flaw attacks that bypass 
mitigations  
  
83 
Should have Java Lockdown to prevent attacks that abuse Java to launch 
Windows executables  
  
84 
Should support Squiblydoo AppLocker Bypass to prevent regsvr32 from 
running remote scripts and code. 
  
85 
Should have protection for CVE-2013-5331 & CVE-2014- 4113 via Metasploit 
for In-memory payloads: Meterpreter & Mimikatz  
  
86 
Quantity: 750 users in no's 
  
87 
Validity: 5 years  
  
 
Administrative Officer 
AIIMS, Jodhpur 
 
 
 
 


