--- Page 17 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/RC/Vein Viewer/271/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 17 
 
      Vein viewing device for vascular imaging and identifying vein patency 
 
1) Should be Non-laser device based on harmless nearinfraredLights. 
2) Should be a portable, hand held model for easy handling.Wrist strap 
3) Penetration Depth: The vein imaging device should have the ability to visualize vessels up to 10mm deep 
or better , the ideal clinical depth range for PIV options, with provided clinical evidence to substantiate., 
4) Multiple Imaging Modes: 
Universal, Inverse mode - for Adult and dark skin patients  
Fine detail mode, resizemode:NICU/Paediatric patients 
Max Bright Mode:Special Max Bright mode for using the equipment in non-standard 
Lighting conditions / under Sunlight or without dimming the room light. 
5) Image Quality and Focusvein imaging device should offer an image appropriate across all skin tones and 
a method of detecting when image is at the proper focal distance, by clearly reading the text in image 
outline border. 
6) Should have minimum brightness of 6 lumens and substantiate with technical specifications evidence. 
7) Image Capture optionshould have a in built camera to capture the real time image of the vasculature 
under focus area. Captures a time stamped static image of the projected vein image and saves at-least 200 
images the image as a BMP file.  
8) Direct projection on surface of skin:  should not require secondary monitor to interfere with technique 
 
9) Utilization of device in any orientation without degradation of performance:Vein-imaging device 
should offer an image that provides for the same accuracy and reliability of image regardless of the 
rotation of the device/technique for use on the patient. 
10) Real time digital imageshould provide evidence of real-time imaging and demonstrate ability to visualize 
blood refill and detect valves. Vein imaging device to provide evidence of real-time imaging and 
demonstrate ability to visualize fluid flushing process for vessel patency to prevent against infiltration and 
hematoma. 
11) Should be a Non-laser based system and the light should not be harmful to eyes. It should not have 
any mandated eye safety warnings. Emission: Device should be tested to and complies with IEC 60601-
1-2 standard or better for Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) and for radiated and conducted emissions.  
12) Clinical evidence minimum requirementshould provide at least 2-3 peer-reviewed journal in quality.  
13) Device should not come in contact with the skin, preventing contamination, heating etc. 
14) Device should not need consumables. 
Operations and rechargeable battery:Fast – swap rechargeable Lithium  
Upto 2 hour continuous 
run time per battery Ion Batteries .Should work on rechargeable Battery and directly on AC power also. 
Battery life should be 2 hours in active machine. Machine can be used while the battery is charging. 
15) Mandatory Accessories to be provided : 
2 S mounts,Rechargeable battery, Battery charging station, AC power adapter, USB cable,Training DVD 
and a storage case. 
16) Portable and Fast Set Up Time/Direct Projection on Surface of skin/Hands free use: Should provide a 
hands-free technique with less than 60 seconds setup time from power up to useable image . 
17) Durability : It should be a rough & tough Device , Drop tested per IEC , certificate to be submitted  
18) US FDA & CE marked. 
19) Should have a proven record of accomplishment of satisfactory usage in India for more than three years.  
At-least 2-3 User recommendation from Major Govt. Hospitals to be submitted. 
20) Should have more than 95 percent up workingtime. 
21) A necessary two visit per year of service engineer is mandatory for calibration and maintenance with 
proper log and visit entry in central stores register during the warranty period .This is apart from the 
complaint service. 
22) A five year warranty (with spares) and 5year CMC (with spares) needs to be quoted in Financial and 
technical bid. 
23) Vein Viewer Flex include a travel case (to hold the device, batteries and battery charger) and a charger.  
24) To be provided with standard with (2) S- Mounts and (2) clamps so clinicians can mount the device to 
existing fixtures – allowing for hands free, Eyes on patient technique.  
 


