--- Page 17 ---
Tender No.: AIIMS/R/CS/RDG/MRI/23/OT 
 
17 
 
38. SPECIFICATIONS/ TECHNICAL COMPLIANCE STATEMENT: 
The firm must be submitted offer of quality product/ item along with detailed 
technical specification. 
39. OTHER REQUIRMENTS:-  
a. System should be quoted with Performance Report/Certificate of Last 3 
Years by Various user/users form Government Institutions of India 
b. The Vendor should have a Training Centre in India 
c. Firm should avail technical support staff within 24 hrs upon receipt of 
breakdown, to take action regarding repair or replace of defective 
equipment/parts. The cost of repair/replacement shall be borne by the 
suppliers 
d. The calibration of the Equipment would be as per the norms/ frequency of 
as required by HOD/Professor Incharge of Department would be done by the 
successful bidder 
e. Application support, engineering support, bi-directional interfacing, machine 
downtime (24 hrs) including wear and tear of parts and preventive 
maintenance kit or parts according to schedule, training, validation tests, 
demonstration are to be provided free of cost by the bidder 
f. The Bidder shall be a sole provider (Company/Society/Trust) or a group of 
companies coming together as Consortium to implement the Project. The 
bidder cannot be an individual or group of individuals. The Service provider 
should be registered as a legal entity such as company registered under 
Companies Act, Societies Registration Act, Trust Act or an equivalent law 
applicable in the region/state/ country. A bidder cannot bid both as a sole 
provider as well as a partner in a consortium 
g. The Purchaser will award the Contract to the successful Bidder whose bid 
has been determined to be substantially responsive and has been 
determined as the lowest evaluated bid provided further that the Bidder is 
determined to be qualified to perform the Contract satisfactorily for the 
items offered 
h. The supplier will have to undertake that they will provide/ assign of 
professional and technical staff with specialized knowledge, skills, and 
practical experience as per the requirement and special needs of operations. 
This assignment can be done based on mutual agreement for total contract 
period. The assigned staff normally works under the Institute supervision 
i. The Bidder shall have adequate experience in carrying out similar type of 
assignment / service in private or public sector. In support of this, a 
statement regarding assignments of similar nature successfully completed 
during last three years should be submitted as per Performa. Users’ 
certificate regarding satisfactory completion of assignments should also be 
submitted. The assignment of Govt. Depts. / Semi Govt. Depts. should be 
specifically brought out. (The decision of the Purchaser as to whether the 
assignment is similar or not and whether the bidders possess adequate 
experience or not, shall be final and binding on the bidders.)  
j. The determination will take into account the Bidder’s financial and technical 
capabilities. It will be based upon an examination of the documentary 


