--- Page 17 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/BB/19/10/OT 
 
 
Page 17 of 21 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical Specification 
Sl. No. 
Item Descriptions 
1 
Chemiluminescence based fully Automated Immunoassay System     Quantity: 01                             
 
Specification: 
1. Fully Automated immunodiagnostic system, shall be based on chemiluminescence 
technology, walkaway system for HIV I & II, HBSAg, HCV and Syphilis with latest 
acceptable ‘Technology and reagents’ approved by Drug Controller General of India 
(DGCI). 
2. Capacity 
i. It should have continuous loading capacity of 50 samples with a thorough put of 75-
100 samples/hour. 
ii. It should have barcode reader to read multiple barcode types. 
iii. It should have a capability to do the assay in continuous, random, batch & stat mode. 
3. Sample Handling 
 
i. It should have the capacity to accept various types of sample container like primary, 
secondary tubes and micro sample cups for sampling purposes. 
ii. It should have access to the samples during operations. 
iii. It should have the facility for clot detection, bubble detection, check viscosity, 
sample level and short samples to ensure accuracy preventing erroneous results due 
to improper samples. 
iv. It should have an ability to do on board dilution and reflex dilution for high and 
abnormal samples. 
4. Reagent Management 
 
i. It should have the disposable tip system to avoid reagent carryover (included in the 
consumables provided by the firm). 
ii. The onboard reagent stability should be minimum 2 months. 
iii. It should be continuous random access to loading and unloading reagents. 
iv. It should have the compact, integrated reagent pack with all components. 
v. It should have the capability of inbuilt inventory management system by tracking all 
the reagents and supplies automatically. 
 
5. Calibration and Quality Control 
 
i. It should have the calibration stability of at least 25‐30 days for each parameter to 
decrease reagents consumption. 
ii. It shall have multiple lot calibration capabilities and calibration curve transition 
facility. 
iii. It shall have the QC package system to monitor the quality of result obtained. 
iv. Reagents used should be approved by the National Institute of Biological or DGCI 
with approval for the Detection of HIV, HBsAG, HCV in a Blood Bank as a primary 
method for the screening of Blood Donors. 
 
6. Data Management 
 
i. It should have the self-diagnosis and error recovery system with onboard operator 
guides for efficient trouble shooting purpose. 
ii. It shall be compatible to the laboratory information system for on data storage facility 
for a min. of 5000 reports. 
iii. It shall have online status for worksheet, samples, reagents, tips, quality controls. 
iv. Compatible UPS with one and half hour power back-up and Laser printer to be 
supplied cost of which should be included in the quotation. 
7. Waste Management: It shall have the facility to collect both liquid and solid 


--- Page 18 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/BB/19/10/OT 
 
 
Page 18 of 21 
 
waste. 
8. It should have onsite warranty of five years after installation. 
9. Rates for CMC to be quoted separately after completion of warranty for 5 years 
and these rates will be considered of pricing. 
10. Free onsite training to Doctors and Technicians to be provided. 
11. Company should provide 1000 test reagent for HIV, HBsAg, HCV each free of 
cost. 
12. Quotation for various types of consumables and accessories shall be provided. 
13. Necessary Operator manual and other accessories should be provided with the 
equipment without any extra cost. 
14. Equipment should be completely functional on day one of its installation  
15. Acceptable quality certification BIS/Make in India/European CE/USFDA. List of 
installations and feedback report should be provided from at-least three 
Government Blood Banks. 
 
Enclosure-I: -   PARAMETERS REQUIRED: 
 
Anti-HIV 1/2 – 5000 tests annually including cost per reportable test  
Price of Reagents (Cleaner/Washer/Diluent) /Kits /Calibrator – required every 28days 
/QCs  (Positive control and Negative control required daily) /Tips required /Any other 
accessory must be included) 
 
Anti-HCV - 5000 tests annually including cost per reportable test  
Price of Reagents (Cleaner/Washer/Diluent) /Kits /Calibrator – required every 28days 
/QCs  (Positive control and Negative control required daily) /Tips required /Any other 
accessory must be included) 
 
HBsAg testing - 5000 tests annually including cost per reportable test   
Price of Reagents (Cleaner/Washer/Diluent) /Kits /Calibrator – required every 28days 
/QCs  (Positive control and Negative control required daily) /Tips required /Any other 
accessory must be included) 
 
Syphilis testing - 5000 tests annually including cost per reportable test 
Price of Reagents (Cleaner/Washer/Diluent) /Kits /Calibrator – required every 28days 
/QCs  (Positive control and Negative control required daily) /Tips required /Any other 
accessory must be included) 
 
Explanation: 
Apheresis donation for platelets is an emergency donation.  
Here blood donor after being medically selected has to wait for the testing results of 
Transfusion transmitted infections (TTI’s - Anti-HIV 1/2; Anti- HCV; HBsAg; Syphilis; 
Malaria) and after the results he is connected to cell separator for this precious donation. 
Blood donors for this kind of donation are difficult to motivate because all these 
procedures including one hour on the machine comes out to be an investment of 4 hours 
for the blood donor. 
Therefore this screening is usually done with Rapid kits with results obtained in about 
20mins 
Limitation of the Rapid testing is that it can miss few of the donors who may pass on the 
TTI to intended recipient. 


