--- Page 10 ---
Tender for V-HIT System                                                                                             Admn/Tender/26-2/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-II 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
V-HIT 
System  
Technical Specifications: 
1.  Video Recording should be more than 100 Hz, and should include Impulse, 
VOR, Skew Deviation, Video Recording and Playback. 
2. Eye Tracking should at 100 x 100 pixels include Impulse, VOR, and 
Monocular Video Frenzel (ROI) 
3. Vestibular Software should have a Windows Graphical User Interface. It 
should be  a High Performance Analysis Software. It should have a robust 
secure backend Database that will enable storage of Test Data, permit good 
patient Test Data Management; 
4. The instrument should have a USB 2.0 or 3.0 to PC hardware interface 
5. The Device should be powered through USB: 5V DC/500mA or, via an 
External Power Supply with appropriate adapter for providing 5V DC. 
6. Inputs for the Head module should have a 9 Axis Motion Sensor 
7.  Inputs for Eyes should be monocular/binocular, with a sampling rate of 250 
fps for Impulse, VOR & facility for Video Record/Playback; sampling rate 
above 200 fps for Gaze & Skew Deviation 
8. Minimum Computer Requirements: 
(a) Operating System:   64-bit: Latest Windows Professional. 
(b) CPU:  Intel i7 processor, Memory 64-bit: 16 GB, Disk Space -1 TB SSD 
(c) Four USB-C for the goggles, synchronized room video, presentation 
remote, and monitor of size 32 inches or above 
(d) DVD R/W, Monitor -1920 X 1080 pixels Screen resolution 
9. Other qualifications: 
(a) Rates of the spares/accessories/consumables which are not covered under 
guarantee/warrantee should be- quoted individually and by the company (item 
not mentioned in the list are assumed under comprehensive warranty and 
company have to provide for proper function of equipment) and should be freeze 
for five years from the date of installation. Any spares/accessories/consumables 
not quoted by the company will be presumed to be supplied free by the company. 
(b) The instruments might be called for demonstration and approval. It is the sole 
discretion of the committee to approve or disapprove the quality. 
(c)  It should be I5013485, European CE (with a four-digit notifiable body) or 
USFDA approved. 
(d) All the equipment including all the accessories should be provided with the 
detailed data sheet/ along with the original brochure of the quoted model 
(Photocopies/Print outs are not accepted). 
(e) An undertaking to be provided by the principal/manufacturer of the system 
for availability of spares for 10 years for the date of installation. 
01 


