--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Micro/18/55/A/OT 
 
Page 18 of 23 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
DETAILED TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR 
Next Generation Sequencer (with accessary equipments-fragment analyser & Qubit 
fluorometer),Real Time PCR Machine & Bio Safety Cabinet Type II A2 
 
 
A. Next Generation Seqencer(NGS) 
1. Intended applications for the instrument. The system should be a single, 
integrated bench top instrument capable of performing real time sequencing of 
DNA, PCR amplicon, cDNA, targeted RNA, micro RNA, de novo and re-
sequencing of whole genome of virus, bacteria, fungi and yeast. System must 
also be able to perform target exome or whole exome and transcriptome 
sequencing, detection of low frequency variants, full length transcript 
sequencing and micro RNA sequencing etc. 
2. Clonal amplification of DNA template should be fully automated on the 
sequencer or using ancillary equipment. It must provide sequence both sense 
and antisense strand. 
3. The chemistry should allow for highly accurate sequencing through minimum 
8 hohopolymeric regions. 
4. The sequencing workflow should allow fully automated, walk-away operation, 
without user intervention, from template amplification to analyzed data on a 
single machine or by attaching ancillary systems. 
5. System should generatre data of up  to 7.5 Gb of 25 million paired end reads 
of high-quality data passing filter. 
6. NGS should generate accurate base calls and data should be error free with 
greater than 80% bases with high quality Q30 score at minimum 2x150 bp read 
length,derived directly from intensity data and from a reference sequence. 
7. The system should be offered with integratedd paired-end fluidics on the 
instrument,supported with fully automated paired-end chemistry,without user 
intervention. 
8. System should be offer barcode for multiplexing. 
9. The vendor must provide the basic ancillaries required to perform QC check i.e. 
an instrument that can perform fdregment analysis and QC check in terms of 
nucleic acid quality and quantity along with NGS platform.  
10. The system should have an option of integrating with a cloud-based computing 
environment,for data storage ,sharinf and secondary /teritary lelvel data 
analysis. 
11. The sequencing chemistry should be robust and globally proven,demonstrated 
with at least 100 peer reviewed publications. 
12. System should be accompanied by either on board or additional good  reputed 
quality work station having minimum CPU-2.6GHz or above 2 with octa core 
processor, RAM-32 Gb, Storage- 2-3 Tb. Data sharing and storage should be 
enabled with ease with a secure and safe environment. 
13. Should be provided with 2 KVA UPS for 1 hour backup. 
14. Should have warranty of three years and CMC of five years after expiry of the 
warranty period. 
15. Instrument should be supplied with intial complete set of reagents for start-up 
of the system for at  least 100 sequencing reactions,comprising of 20 samples 


--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Micro/18/55/A/OT 
 
Page 19 of 23 
 
for viral genome, 40 samples for trageted PCR amplicon, 20 for micro RNA and 
20 for 16s rRNA. 
16. All regeants for calibration and quality control and also for initial installation 
and training shuold be supplied with the equipment0 
17. User friendly software to analyze the sequences in the standard format of 
FASTA and FASTQ.All future software upgradation should be supplied free of 
cost within warranty period. 
18. On-site trainings should be provided for wet lab and bioinformatics for easy 
understanding of function of the equipment of the equipmenttill the user gets 
confidence to run the applications on his own and later on remote support 
basisi as and when required. 
19. A user list to be enclosed of installations in India.  
 
 


