--- Page 17 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/18/252/OT 
 
Page 17 of 21 
 
Annexure-I 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect and 5 years CMC. 
2. All equipment’s should be BIS/European CE certified /USFDA approved. 
3. Manufacturer should be ISO certified 
4. All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ quotation clearly 
marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. All the components of item under a particular serial no. will be purchased together from a 
single vendor. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the firms: 
6. L-1 will be decided on total value only  
7. All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed government 
hospitals like AIIMS/ PGI/ NIMHANS and should submit a certificate of satisfactory 
working from the concerned government hospital. 
Schedule A 
 Specification for Neuro ICU Monitor: 10 units 
1. Patient monitor system should be advanced modular type and capable of monitoring adult, 
paediatric & Neonatal patients. 
2. Monitor should have 15” TFT/LCD display with full touch screen user interface. 
3. Should be capable of display 10 or more waveforms 
4. Monitor must be capable of simultaneously monitoring the following parameters: ECG, NIBP, 
SpO2, Respiration, Dual IBP, Dual temperatures, Main stream EtCO2, EEG-4 channel or more 
and BIS. 
5. All monitors should have ports for ECG, NiBP, SpO2, Resp, Dual Temp., Dual IBP, EtCO2, 
EEG-4 channel or more & BIS. 
6. All monitors should be able to support all the modules and accessories. 
7. ECG 3, 5/6 lead input: isolated & floating 3, 5/6 leads. Protect against surges produced by 
electro surgical & defibrillation protection. 
8. Monitor should have facility to monitor 12 lead ECG through 10 lead ECG cable along with 12 
lead ECG analysis & report. 
9. Inbuilt ST segment analysis and arrhythmia detection for all the leads should be possible. 
10. Should have facility to detect advance arrhythmias (at least 22 different types) and should show 
number of arrhythmias occurred with ECG waveform for last 72 hours. 
11. Should have Low perfusion SpO2 technology (Clinical papers to be submitted). 
12. Should display perfusion index (PI %) from SpO2 as an indication of pulse strength at the 
sensor site. 
13. Monitor should have facility to measure dynamic preload parameter such as Pulse pressure 
variation, or Systolic pressure variation.   
14. Machine must have facility for alarm escalation in case nursing staff miss the alarm. 
15. Must have minimum 72 hours review data including graphical & tabular trends  
16. Must be able to store & display the 72 hours beat by beat waveforms for 4 or more selected 
parameter by the user. 
17. Monitor must be upgradeable to Hemodynamic Graphs to view hemodynamic conditions of the 
patient based on Frank starling principle and EGDT protocol.(Sepsis Protocol) 
18. Monitor shall provide the capability to receive and display real-time waveforms, alarm status 
from other bedside on the patient monitoring network. 


--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/18/252/OT 
 
Page 18 of 21 
 
19. Alarm limit status (ON/OFF) must be indicated on-screen for each parameter and actual 
parameter alarm settings must be displayed on-screen when alarms are on. 
20. Waveform color changing should be user configurable. 
21. Hemodynamic, OXYCRG and drug dose calculations should be available. 
22. Monitor shall permit the optional ability to receive and display information from other patient 
devices such as ventilators & other standalone devices. 
23. All modules should be compatible with all monitors quoted.  
24. Monitor must have inbuilt rechargeable battery with minimum backup of 60 minutes or more.   
25. Bed to bed communication between the monitors should be possible without a central station. 
26. Patient monitoring network shall use standard TCP/IP protocol and be capable of residing on 
hospital’s network infra-structure. 
27. Should be compatible with HIS and should be HL7 compliant. 
28. Monitor should be upgradable to provide remote viewing of real time waveforms through 
internet. 
29. The equipment should be BIS / European CE / US FDA Approved. 
30. Monitors should be supplied with following accessories. 
a) ECG / respiration: 5/6   lead ECG cable set  
 
- 10 No. 
b) NIBP: Adult Cuff 
 
 
 
 
 
- 10 No. 
c) SpO2 Sensor: Adult and Pediatric sensor  
 
 
- 10 No. 
d) IBP connection cable   
 
 
 
 
- 20 No. 
e) Temperature: Skin and rectal probes   
 
 
- 10 No. each 
f) Mainstream EtCO2 sensor  
 
 
 
 
- 05 No.  
g) EEG- 4 or more Channel necessary accessories 
 
- 05 set 
h) BIS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 05 No. 
 
Schedule B:  
Central Nursing Monitoring Station 
1. System should have minimum 16 beds capability and upgradeable to 48 beds  
2. Central station should have 24” or more colour display  
3. Must be supplied with network colour printer & printing of review/trend data from central 
station should be possible.  
4. It should have facility to view last 72 hours stored information such as vital signs, alarm 
status, arrhythmia analysis trended parameters patient data etc. for any selected bed from 
the central station.  
5. Should have facility to take NIBP measurement from central station.  
6. Should have default alarm limits and customizable parameter settings.  
7. Central station should have full bed review capability.  
8. Should have two-way communication with bedside monitor alarm setting should be 
possible from central station.  
9. All monitors including central station should have similar user interface for easy usage 
among all clinicians.  
10. Should have capability for HL7 interface. Should be upgradable to remote viewing of 
entire.  
11. Should be supplied with an On-Line suitable UPS with minimum 30 minutes backup.  
12. The system should have facility to view the data remotely on iPad or iphone. It should be 
supplied with at least one I-pad.  
13. CNS should be BIS/ European CE / USFDA) approved. 
14. Warranty for 5 years and Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) for 5 years.  


