--- Page 41 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/GDM-001/24/GTE 
Page 41 of 65 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL  SPECIFICATIONS 
 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Real Time PCR System  
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. Warranty: 5 years against  manufacturing defect  
2. All instruments should be corrosion resistant, autoclavable, BIS approved. 
3. Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ quotation clearly marking the 
Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. All the components of item under a particular serial no. will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the firms. 
6. L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central government hospitals 
like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of satisfactory working from the concerned 
government hospital. 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR “REAL TIME PCR SYSTEM”   
 
 Real time PCR with 96 well block to run 0.2ml tube strips or 96 x 0.2ml plate 
 System should be able to generate a thermal gradient across the 96-well reaction block to 
support rapid optimization of real-time PCR assays. Temperature differences of up to 
24°C front-to-back should be possible.  
 Peltier-driven system should have a maximum ramping speed of 5°C/sec, with an average 
ramp rate of 3.3°C/sec. 
 Temperature Uniformity should be: 0.4 °C AND ACCURACY: 0.25°C  
 System should be able to real-time PCR experiments without being attached to a 
computer. When operated as a stand-alone instrument, the instrument should save at least 
1000 run files. 
 System should be able to run in standalone mode through flexible connectivity options of 
WIFI, Ethernet and USB 
 System should have intuitive touch screen user interface to create new PCR protocols, 
modify existing protocols, set up unique user names, with optional passwords to organize 
and find protocols and experiments 
 The system should have six filtered LEDs for illumination and six filtered photodiodes to 
differentially detect emission (one for each channel plus FRET). 
 Optical system should allow excitation and detection of up to five fluorescent dyes in a 
single reaction well 
 System should have fixed optical path, directly over each well, to eliminate the need to 
normalize for positional bias 
 System should have one channel dedicated for FRET and Protein Thermal Shift (Protein 
Melt) experiments 
 System should have a linear dynamic range of 10 orders of magnitude for detection of 
input samples 
 System should be able to detect a 1.3-fold change in gene expression. 
 System should be able to run and complete a run if the software is stopped or interrupted. 
This prevents run data from being lost in case if there is unintentional interruption of the 
software. 
 System should be able to connect to a cloud platform for remote monitoring, experiment 
set up, and Cq analysis. 


--- Page 42 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/GDM-001/24/GTE 
Page 42 of 65 
 
Software:  
 Should have mode for PCR quantification with standard curve, melt curve analysis, gene 
expression analysis by relative quantity or normalized expression, Allelic discrimination, 
end point analysis. 
 Software should be able to compare up to 5000 Cq values from different data files for 
gene expression analysis 
 Software should display gene stability for selection of ideal reference genes 
 Data analysis options should include bar charts, box-and- whisker plots, dot plots, 
clustergrams, scatter plots and volcano plots. 
 Software should perform t-tests and 1-way ANOVA Calculations 
 Software should enable data to be grouped and interpreted by both technical replicates and 
biological groups 
 Software should have embedded reports tool which can be customized by the user to 
export run information, data tables, graphs, and analysis parameters in a specified order to 
PDF or other file formats 
 Software should have Image annotation function for automatic p-value annotation and 
addition of arrows, circles, and text directly onto graph images 
 Additional Requirements:  
 2KVA Online UPS with 30mins back up should be supplied with the System 
 Standard Desktop computer should be supplied with the system. 
 Warranty should be 5 years and thereafter 5 year CMC. 
 
 
 
 Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description as 
per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item Description 
offered by Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 43 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/GDM-001/24/GTE 
Page 43 of 65 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document 
for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever 
applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning 
and 
Site 
Modification 
Work 
from 
the 
date 
of 
satisfactory 
installation, 
commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College. 
b) 98% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by 
double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, 
maximum within 8 hrs. The service should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. 
Undertaking by the Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 
10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents 
(if 
they have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the 
satisfaction of the consignee. The same will be in line with the training modalities as 
specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site 
Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes preventive 
maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service /operational manual 
of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory completion of Warranty period 
may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for complete equipment 
(including Batteries 
for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). 
The supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended 
in the manufacturer’s technical/ 
service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ 
year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender 
Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any 
such 
stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim for the same 
will be 
entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be taken at Net 
Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory completion of 
said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee for 5% of the cost of the 
equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 98% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 
(days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime period. 
f) During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at least twice 
in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, 
commencing from the date of the successful completion of warranty period for preventive 
maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the Bank 
Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 44 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/GDM-001/24/GTE 
Page 44 of 65 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, 
wherever required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be 
installed, in consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. Site 
Modification Work details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end 
of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of the 
Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The Site 
Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the 
price will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be 
entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderer’s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). 
The tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it’s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical 
equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety 
Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 
60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not 
available they should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for 
electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test 
and Development Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance 
call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management 
information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost 
technical training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment 
on site at the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be 
required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and 
CMC period 
 
 


