--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Chemiluminescence Gel Doc System 
Admn/Tender/20/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Chemiluminesce
nce Gel Doc 
System 
 
• Computer controlled Chemiluminescence Western blot, Trans-UV for 
DNA, RNA gel and colorimetric protein gel imaging system with 
extensive analysis tool for molecular weight calculation, band distance, 
colony counting, etc.  
• System must have fluorescence based imaging and multiplexing 
application with the choice of UV, visible (Red, Green, Blue), near IR, 
IR and deep IR spectral excitation.  
• Scientific Grade CCD camera with sensor size of 1 inch or better.  
• System must have f0.84 or better aperture must for high sensitivity 
and extremely high level of resolution  
• Camera should give minimum 6.3 megapixels native and 20 
megapixels extended with image resolution of 2838 x 2224 densities  
• Camera must be a cooled CCD with -55°C maximum cooling from 
the ambient and with -30°C absolute and regulated cooling by three 
stage pettier thermoelectric cooler.  
• Interface must be USB 3.0 for faster image transfer to help image 
before signal gets weaker.  
• Should be a lab proof compact design, require minimal bench space, 
robust and chemical resistant system made of Stainless steel, aluminum 
and steel.  
• Superbright Technology to visualize faint bands thereby increased 
sensitivity with no visible light background while performing gel 
documentation  
• High sensitivity reading technology for isolation of the electronic 
components of the camera during the light capture in order to avoid 
noise  
• Should have smart auto exposure mode with optimum exposure time 
calculation by the software based on the signal output from the sample  
• System should provide options for 1x1, 2x2, 3x3, 4x4 binning.  
• 4- 8 position filter wheel allows for dye flexibility of different 
fluorescent stains.  
• Pre-calibrated focus for all defined sample height. Easy and 
convenient adjustment of lens settings  
• Light safety switch override for safety and for preparative work when 
the door is open  
• Software should be provided for analysis and must include features 
for auto exposure and 3D Dynamic scan.  
• Software should have Apps Studio with library of applications for 
better ease of use  
• Must be supplied with branded ( Dell / HP) desktop computer to 
operate the system as well as for image analysis.  
• Must include multiuser licensed image analysis software.  
• Interference Filter Emission maxima to acquire image from gel 
stained with dyes, Ethidium bromide, Gel Red, Gel Green, SYBR 
Green, SYBR Safe, lumitein, SYPRO Ruby, etc.  
• UV / WL Conversion Screen Qty-01 Nos.  
• User List and performance certificate must be attached. 
 
01  


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Chemiluminescence Gel Doc System 
Admn/Tender/20/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
Annexure-II 
 
TECHNICAL BID 
 
Name of Firm/Contractor/Supplier 
 
 
Complete Address & 
Telephone No. 
 
 
 
Name of Proprietor/Partner/Managing 
Director/Director. 
 
 
Phone No:- 
Mobile No:- 
Email Id:- 
 
 
Name and address of service centre nearby 
Jodhpur. 
 
 
Whether the firm is a registered firm 
Yes/No (attached copy of certificate). 
 
 
PAN No. 
(enclose the attested copy of PAN Card). 
 
 
GST IN 
(enclose the attested copy of GST Registration 
Certificate). 
 
Whether the firm has enclosed the Bank Draft/Pay 
Order/Banker’s cheque of Earnest Money Deposit. 
 
 
 
 
Whether the Firm/Agency has signed each and 
every page of Tender/NIT. 
 
Please provide full list of consumables. 
 
Any other information, if necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized signatory of the bidder with seal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


