--- Page 48 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Handheld ICG Fluorescence System 
 
Page 45 of 69 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Handheld ICG Fluorescence 
Imaging System. 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. 
Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ 
quotation clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the 
firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS for “Handheld ICG Fluorescence Imaging 
System” 
1. Video Processor and Illuminator (VPI) – 01 unit 
 
The VPI video processor and illuminator shall be able to provide the VIS 
(visible) and NIR (near-infrared) illumination to the surgical endoscope via a 
flexible light guide simultaneously 
 
The VIS light source shall be consisted of light emitting diode array 
 
The NIR light source shall be consisted of NIR laser diode array 
 
The VPI shall be able to generate simultaneous real-time HD video color and 
ICG fluorescence images as an overlay in the same image 
 
NIR light source shall be triggered by the button on the camera 
 
Video output signals: 2 HD-SDI, 1 DVI 
 
Output HD format: 1080i59.94, 1080p59.94 
 
Picture elements: 1920 x 1080 
 
The output must be at least High definition or higher 
 
The device shall be able to generate and display 4 different modes of images on 
the monitor simultaneously: White Light mode, Black and White Fluorescence 
mode, near infrared and visible overlay mode, Color-segmented Fluorescence 
mode 


--- Page 49 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Handheld ICG Fluorescence System 
 
Page 46 of 69 
 
 
Should comply with below safety standards:  
o Electrical safety:  
o Type of protection against electric shocks:  
o Degree of protection against electric shocks:  
o Laser class 
o Radio frequency emission:  
o Harmonic emissions:  
o Embedded Laser Source  
 
Accessible near infrared radiation Should be 
o Acceptable divergence 
o Wavelength: 805nm-835 nm  
2. Full HD Portable Handheld Imager – 01 unit 
 
Preferably CMOS HD sensor assembly 
 
Resolution: 1080P 
 
Frame rate: 60fps 
 
Working distance: 10 - 40cm 
 
Aspect ratio: 16:9 which can display captured images in widescreen monitor 
without any signal conversion 
 
The imager should have illumination ports to visually define FOV extent for 
the operator and ensure adequate illumination of anatomy irrespective of 
lighting conditions. 
 
The imager should be able to use at ambient room lighting immune to 
ambient room lighting, which means room lights can be turned on during 
imaging 
 
The imager has to be supplied with bed-mount arm to avoid fatigue of 
operator for long-duration procedures. 
 
The imager has to be supplied with sterile drape so that it can be placed in 
the surgical field without contamination. 
 
The imager shall have multiple buttons for quick functions and setting 
purpose 
o buttons for focusing the image 
o A button to toggle between VIS and NIR 
o A button to toggle between different modes of NIR 


--- Page 50 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Handheld ICG Fluorescence System 
 
Page 47 of 69 
 
o A button to call for menu functions 
o Basic functions including turning camera light on and off, white 
balance, screen capture and recording can be done using the buttons 
on the camera 
3. High Resolution Medical Grade Monitor- 01 unit 
 
26 Inch or more LED surgical display  
 
Resolution of 1920 x 1080 
 
Should have DVI, and HDMI inputs 
 
Aspect Ratio 16:9 
 
Should meet European CE or USA FDA approval standards 
4. High-definition Medical Video Recorder 
o Should have provision to record the images and video sequences in OT. 
o Should be compliant to Medical standards 
o It should support wide range of recording resolutions 
 
1920 x 1080 (30Hz / 29.97Hz) to 640 x 480: Undiluted 
recording resolution 
 
1921 x 1201 (Resize to 1728 x 1080): Supported Input 
resolution 
o It should have multiple HD & SD inputs/outputs 
o Should have still image recording format of jpeg and video format of 
MPEG-4  
o Display should be at least 3.5” LCD 
o It should support recordable devices like USB Flash Drive, USB Hard 
Drive, Internal hard drive of 500 GB 
o Should be FDA approve Class 1 device 
o Should be from the OEM 
The above-mentioned systems should be provided by below mentioned 
accessories: 
1. Articulating Arm - 01 unit 
 
This arm is used to hold and position the camera head as per the surgical 
requirements 
 
This should have components to enable fixation to the OT table and ICG 
camera/ imaging head:  


--- Page 51 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Handheld ICG Fluorescence System 
 
Page 48 of 69 
 
 
The table clamp provides an attachment point to the operating table side rail. 
Accepts and holds the column of the main arm in position and allows for full 
range of rotation. 
 
The Main Arm provides three-point positioning of the imaging head into the 
surgical field 
 
The imaging head holder Connects to the distal end of the main arm to provide 
an attachment point for the imaging head 
 
The arm should be made up of metal and must be reusable after autoclaving/ 
other sterilization modes  
2. ICG ( Indocyanine Green): 100 unit 
 
ICG contains not more than 5.0% sodium iodide 
 
ICG is a sterile, water soluble, tri carbocyanine dye with a peak spectral 
absorlasma or blood at 800-810nm of near infrared light range 
3.  Drapes for hand held imager: 50 Unit 
4. Monitor stand  
5. Trolley for set up 
6. Cover for set up 
General  
1. All the above equipments should have USFDA and European CE and should 
be enclosed compulsorily 
2. Spares and consumables should be available for a period of at least 5 years 
and more after the expiry of the guarantee/ warranty period 
3. The principles must give a certificate if the supplier/ vendor is changed during 
the course of guarantee/ Warrantee period  
4. The principles would be responsible for the upkeep/ maintenance of the 
quote/ supplied equipment, besides honoring all the terms and conditions of 
the CMC/ AMC in letter and Spirit 
5. The firm must attach the list of installations and also provide performance 
certificate in last 5 years from central govt/ state government/ reputed private 
hospitals 
6. System configured application specific educational video tutorials shall be 
provided as standard with the system 
7. All the accessories should preferably be from the original equipment 
manufacturer 
8. Should provide 5-year CMC 
9. Details of the service outlet in India to render services during 5 years warranty 
period 


