--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Fully Automated Gel Documentation System                                                                         
Admn/Tender/208-2/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Fully 
Automate
d Gel 
Document
ation 
System 
1. Sensitive, multimode image capture and analysis via an intuitive touch 
screen interface and advanced software for analyzing Chemiluminescent 
western blots, Stained Nucleic acid Gels, Stained protein gels and 
Chemiluminescent Nucleic Acid Blots.  
2. System should automatically take a corresponding visible white image with 
every chemiluminescent image exposure and should allow overlay alignment 
with pre-stained MW markers.  
3. The complete capability to replace a Dark Room.  
4.  The Exposure time should be from 10 milliseconds to 99 minutes with auto 
exposure facility for faint & dark bands.  
5.   Should have high resolution camera with 4 mega pixel or more/ greater 
resolution, 16-bit CCD Camera with Peltier Cooling up to -25o C, motorized 
fixed lens 50mm, ƒ/0.95. 
6.  At least 3 position motorized filter wheel; 1 blank for Chemiluminescence 
and 2 for filters and one inbuilt stain free filter .  
7.  Illuminating source with Blue Light Imaging, should be 306nm trans UV 
and LED epiwhite. Should have large 10.4 inch touch screen display with an 
integrated computer with >200GB hard drive. To operate the touchscreen 
interface, a stylus should be provided along with the system. 
8.  Unlimited user licenses/free software upgrade included with the instrument.  
9.  The System should create Dark and Biased Master files to compensate/Flat 
fielding technology or better for the noise coming from the CCD Camera 
during Image Acquisition.  
10. The capability to automatically capture a series of images using preset or 
user defined exposure times.  
11.  Innovative molecular weight overlay feature where colorimetric molecular 
weight marker can be overlaid onto a chemiluminescent image for molecular 
weight determination without compromising the underlying chemiluminescent 
densitometry data.  
12. The Software should be able to calculate sample purity automatically based 
on band and lane intensity and should be able to calculate the Relative and 
Absolute quantity of the unknown proteins samples.  
13. Should be an open platform to accept standard image file types (i.e., TIFF, 
JPEG, PNG, GIF, BMP files).  
14.  The Software should have customized reports, able to edit the Images and 
Text Annotation option should also be there.  
15. The Software should perform Lane Profile Densitometry (Lane and Band 
Identification) and it should also analyze Molecular Weight; determine the Rf 
and Molecular Weight of protein or Nucleic Acid Bands using Installed or 
Custom MW Markers  
16. At least 3 USB & 1 Network Port should be included in the System and the 
system should get directly connected to the printer.  
17. System should be upgradable and there should be flexibility to add filters.  
18. Electrical specification: 220 volts, 50Hz. single phase A.C.  
19. After Sale, Service should be available promptly.  
20.  Should be CE (US/European) or FDA or BIS approved product 
01 


