--- Page 45 ---
                                                                      
                            Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/SG/Ech/1/8/2022/GTE 
45  
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – VII  
               Technical Specification for  Echo and USG machine 
Technical Details: 
1. Should have Ultra High Resolution Imaging and Doppler for Clinical Intraoperative Needs. 
2. Should have a short boot time not more than 60 seconds. 
3. Should have a graphic processing unit for faster work process. 
4. Should have speckle reduction technology for enhancing tissue margins for better anatomical 
visualization and to improve better organ anatomy from different angles. 
5. Should have optimization of ultrasound image formation by using multi-channel synthesis technology 
to reduce noise and artifacts. 
6. 19” flat panel monitor should have a swivel facility. 
7. Should have a back illuminated keyboard for easy access. 
8. Control panel should be sealed and spill proof for easy cleaning and disinfection. 
9. Should have a height adjustable mechanism with a control panel. 
10. Should have facilities to compensate for the motion related imaging artifacts. 
11. Should have technology to maintain autofocus for entire imaging depth. 
12. System should have an auto axial and lateral gain facility. 
13. Should have DICOM capabilities. 
14. Should have Wi-Fi capabilities. 
15. Should have an internal hard drive to store images. 
16. USB Flash memory drive should be the part of the system. 
17. Should be of latest generation digital beam former technology. 
18. Imaging Modes: System should have following modes:  
I. 
B mode 
II. 
M Mode 
III. 
Color Doppler 
IV. 
Power Doppler 
V. 
Pulsed Wave Doppler 
VI. 
Continuous Wave Doppler 
VII. 
Tissue Harmonic Imaging 
VIII. 
Contrast Imaging 
IX. 
Elastography 
19. Should have a facility to connect at least four transducers. 
20. Transducer should have pin less connector for easy insertion and to reduce noise 
21. All quoted transducers should be fully immersible for easy sterilization and also compatible with 
standard sterilization methods like Sterrad and Steris systems. 


--- Page 46 ---
                                                                      
                            Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/SG/Ech/1/8/2022/GTE 
46  
 
22. System should be able to communicate with daVinci surgical robot’s tile pro. 
23. Sterilizable remote control for convenient control of the system in the sterile field should be supplied. 
 
Transducers and accessories: 
24. The following sterilisable transducers to be supplied along with the system: 
i. 
A 5-14 MHz T-shaped intraoperative transducer with Wide Near-Field View. 
ii. 
A simultaneous biplane imaging transducer with transverse and sagittal arrays. Both arrays should 
be able to provide simultaneous biplane imaging during open surgeries for accurate needle 
placement and biopsies. Should be quoted with biopsy attachment. 
iii. 
A laparoscopic four way deflectable flexible transducer which can be used through normal 
laparoscopic ports (10-12 mm). It should have a puncture channel situated at the top for puncture 
and biopsy. 
iv. 
2-6MHz multi frequency standard convex abdominal transducer with customizable start stop button 
and autoclavable biopsy guide. 
v. 
5-12 MHz mini-T shaped high frequency intra operative transducer with small footprint. It should 
have integrated needle guidance for predictable intervention. 
25. The system should be supplied with compatible application-packs necessary for proper functioning of 
the supplied transducers. (HPB surgery procedural application kit - auto-optimization algorithms, 
optimized presets, measurements, calculations, worksheets and reports; Laparoscopic and Robotic 
surgery procedural application kit - auto-optimization algorithms, optimized presets, measurements, 
calculations, worksheets and reports; DICOM standard with encryption; wireless remote control; 
Abdominal procedural application kit - auto-optimization algorithms, optimized presets, measurements, 
calculations, worksheets and reports) 
26. An optional 1-5 MHz phased array transducer with required application pack for basic 
echocardiography may be included. An optional MSK and Nerve Procedural application pack may also 
be included. 
27. Transducers must have start-stop button/s - unique smart button/s to activate, select, freeze, print and 
store images with a simple press.  
28. Necessary printing accessories including color printer to be supplied with the equipment. 
29. It should be supplied with all necessary cables for the device to function. Firm will have to supply the 
stabilizer with the equipment if it is essential for the performance of the equipment. 
Certifications: 


--- Page 47 ---
                                                                      
                            Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/SG/Ech/1/8/2022/GTE 
47  
 
30. It must be BIS / European CE / USFDA certified and the certification specific for the product should be 
submitted. 
Other terms and Conditions: 
31. All the Transducers and machine which are being asked in the tender must be of the same manufacturer, 
else the bidder will be outrightly disqualified 
32. Demo should be provided during technical evaluation. 
33. Demonstration and onsite training of staff by the application experts is mandatory. 
Warranty: 
34. 5 years warranty + 5 years comprehensive maintenance contract. The cost of warranty and CMC will be 
included in the total cost of financial comparison. Original literature of equipment should be submitted. 
During the Warranty & CMC period, the supplier / firm must provide minimum 04 (four) preventive 
maintenance as well as routine services. After sales services must be provided at AIIMS, Raipur (at 
installation site). In situations requiring service or repair of the unit outside AIIMS, Raipur and 
commissioning, the expenditure on the account of this will have to be borne by the supplier. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 48 ---
                                                                      
                            Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/SG/Ech/1/8/2022/GTE 
48  
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE 
document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic 
parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of 
installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date of 
satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period 
by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After 
sales 
service 
centre 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service should 
be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the 
spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date of 
supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian 
Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the 
equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same will be in line with the 
training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site 
Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service 
/operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory 
completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for 
complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts 
wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The supplier shall visit 
each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer‟s technical/ service 
/operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive 
maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender 
Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of 
any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim 
for the same will be entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee 
for 2.5% of the cost of the equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 months after 
expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 
365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime 
period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee‟s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the 


--- Page 49 ---
                                                                      
                            Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/SG/Ech/1/8/2022/GTE 
49  
 
Bank Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 50 ---
                                                                      
                            Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/SG/Ech/1/8/2022/GTE 
50  
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, 
wherever required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to 
be installed, in consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. 
Site Modification Work details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the 
end of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of 
the Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The 
Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking 
Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation 
the price will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be 
entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderer‟s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The 
tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it‟s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical 
equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety 
Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard 
IEC- 60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is 
not available they should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for 
electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test 
and Development Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance 
call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard 
interface interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital 
management information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost 
technical training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment 
on site at the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be 
required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and 
CMC period 


