--- Page 47 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/Multimode Microplate Reader and Fluorometer 
 
Page 44 of 64 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Multimode Microplate Reader 
and Fluorometer  
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. 
Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ 
quotation clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the 
firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
 
SPECIFICATIONS FOR INSTRUMENTATION FOR NEWBORN SCREENING ON 
DRIED BLOOD SPOTS/ Multimode Microplate Reader and Fluorometer  
 
 
1. Instrument should be capable of carrying out Newborn screening from dried blood 
spot sample. 
2. The system should be capable of carrying out the following assays in Newborn 
screening -G6PD, TSH.T4, IRT, PKU, BIOTINDASE, GALT, TOTAL GALACTOSE & 
17α-OHP. All assays should be also certified- USFDA/ CE IVD  
3. The system should work on the principle of time Resolved Fluorometry (TRF) 
which is accepted globally and is proven, and time tested. 
 4. The system must be validated and published on population and at least 3 studies 
should be supplied for the same.  
5. The Fluorometer instrument should be supplied with all needed accessories like 
Automated 
dried 
blood 
spot 
puncher 
with 
workstation(software), 
Plate 
shaker(220/240V), washer- disk remover, Plate dispense, Dispense unit, Microplate 
Incubator Shaker, Platewash; Automatic strips washer, Aneuploidy Risk assessment 
software, SGE with pre-installed workstation [SOFTWARE] for NBS result 
Interpretation & data-management required for NBS.  
6. The system must have at least 3 installations in government institutions of India 
and provide user list with contact details of the quoted instrument. 


--- Page 48 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/Multimode Microplate Reader and Fluorometer 
 
Page 45 of 64 
 
7. Newborn Screening Software should be IVD-certified. 8 Software should provide 
facility to enter and track patient and contact information, create and maintain rules 
related to the creation and content of patient reports and statistical information of 
monitor the performance of the program. 
9. Software should allow user to enter additional information about a patient, 
specimen, determination or a case. This information must be viewed, entered and 
modified if required in various places throughout the application. 
10. System should have barcode reader for plates and regents, both. 
11 System should be capable of multipoint calibration with facilities to store the 
calibration curves and recalibration. 
12. The system should be supplied with informatics solution to automate the full 
work-flow of NBS lab-data entry to report generation. 
13. System should have the capability to do maternal fetal markers for aneuploidy 
screening additionally 
14. Supplier must supply all the required accessory instrument for Prenatal 
screening (if any additional required). 
15. The supplier should have the FMF-approved Risk Calculation Software for 
chromosomal aneuploidy screening 
16. The system should be USFDA/CE-IVD/EU Certified. 
17. The system should have easy to perform and maintain Quality control options 
 18. The reagents to be supplied should have the essential certification and 
certificates. 
19. The reagent kits must contain all the required materials to perform the tests, 
including the Quality Control materials. 
20. The system must have informatics system, wherein complete information about 
Kits, events (log files), Patient-results and Quality-controls could be stored for users 
to view, as and when required. 
21. System must have the capability to perform all the Prenatal Screening markers-
free hCGß , PAPP-A, uE3, AFP, PIGF.  
22. Should provide onsite training till the technical personal familiarizes with the 
instrument. 
 
 
 
 
• 
Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 


--- Page 49 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/Multimode Microplate Reader and Fluorometer 
 
Page 46 of 64 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description 
as per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item 
Description 
offered 
by 
Firm 
Deviation 
if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. 
Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the 
TE document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years 
from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work 
from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & 
handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty 
period by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) 
basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty 
period. 
2. 
After Sales Service:  
After 
sales 
service 
center 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service 
should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the 
Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 
years from the date of supply. 
3. 
Training:  
4. 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ 
Indian Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and 
maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same 
will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical 
specification. 
5. 
Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment 
with Site Modification Work: 
a) 
The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ 
service /operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after 
satisfactory completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on 
yearly basis for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The 
supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer’s 
technical/ service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 
preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the 
CMC period 
b) 
The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of 
Tender Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the 
absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes 
and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
c) 
Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) 
The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of DD/ Direct 
Transfer to the AIIMS Account for 2.5% of the cost of the equipment  valid till 


--- Page 50 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/Multimode Microplate Reader and Fluorometer 
 
Page 47 of 64 
 
2 months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) 
There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) 
X 365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the 
downtime period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) 
Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of 
the DD/Direct Transfer in the AIIMS Account for Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 
 
Note 1:  
Tenderer’s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The 
tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it’s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2:  
General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked for 
and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment 
to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety Standards IS-
13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 60601 is a part 
of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they 
should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety 
compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development 
Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance call. 
Note 3:  
Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management 
information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical 
training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at 
the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be required to train 
the institute personnel onsite as and when required. 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC 
period 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


