--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA) machine                                                       Admn/Tender/120/2016-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Radiofrequenc
y Ablation 
(RFA) 
machine 
1. The machine should be US FDA approved with details of previous 
sales to reputed institutions. 
2. Adequate safety to operator, patients, attendants and other medical 
apparatus connected. 
3. Device should have both the output frequencies- Monopolar and 
Bipolar. 
4. Device should have output frequency: 4 MHz for Monopolar and 
1.7 MHz for Bipolar. 
5. Device should have a minimum output power of 90 W. 
6. Device should have Cut (90W or above), blend (65 W or above), 
Coag( 45 W or above), fulgurate( 35 W or above) and bipolar (90 
W or above) output waveforms.  
7. Device should come with a dual frequency footswitch and cable. 
8. Device should have an option of both reusable and disposables 
consumables. 
9. Device should have Digital Control Panel for easy operation and 
clear view of settings. 
10. Device should have Solid State Circuitry for dependable and 
consistent energy emission. 
11. Device should have auto-cut facility. 
12. Device should have safety indicators to provide visual and 
auditory alerts. 
13. Device should have parameter recall for rapid set-up. 
14. Device should have an audible alarm for neutral plate 
dislodgement. 
15. Device should be able to produce very sharp and precise cutting, 
negligible lateral heat production, and adequate haemostasis. 
16. Device should come with a foot-controlled handpiece. 
17. Device should come with a handpiece clip. 
18. Device should come with a three-button finger switch handpiece. 
19. Device should be a quieter system, small, lightweight generator for 
easy portability. 
20. Weight of the machine should not be more than 10kg.  
21. Device should come with a reusable medical electrode kit. 
22. Device should come with a reusable neutral plate that does not 
require skin contact. 
23. Device should come with an instantly ready to use hand piece. 
24. Device should have platform to use multiple electrodes, for 
various surgical procedures. 
25. Device should be able to treat following indications –moles, 
verrucae vulgaris, rhinophyma, nevus, papilloma or flat warts, 
seborrheic keratosis, hemangioma, venous lake, benign lesions of 
scalp, soft fibroma, telangiectasia, keloids. 
26. Standard accessories should include: 
1. Neutral plates 
2. Two sets of surgical electrodes (loops, balls, knives, pin, 
finewire, needle, sharp pointed electrodes, scalpel, coagulation 
ball). Loops should be round, oval, triangular and diamond 
shaped. Electrodes’ proximal diameter should be 1.6 mm and 
2.4 mm, to accommodate standard hand piece connection. 
3. RF Surgipens 
4. Bipolar forceps with cable. 
5. Instruction manual 
01 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA) machine                                                       Admn/Tender/120/2016-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27. A smoke evacuator with stand alongwith the device will be 
preferrable. 
28. There should be a minimum of 5 year complete warranty with 5 
years CMC after expiry of warranty period. 
29. An on-site demonstration of equipment is mandatory, prior to 
approval. 


