--- Page 38 ---
                                                                  
                                                              Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/FMT/11/2021/GTE           
Page No. 38 
 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
General specifications and terms 
 All units/ items including accessories should have quality certificate such as BIS/USFDA and 
European CE certified.  
 Manufacture should be ISO certified. 
 5 year warranty and CMC should be included. 
 Principal Company should have registered Office and Service Network in India, preferably Central 
India for better service support. 
 User manuals should be in English. Provision of trained manpower support for at least for initial 1 
months after installation or up to a period when the staff/technicians at are trained in handling, storage 
and proper sterilization methods of supplied equipment has to be ensured by the bidder. 
 Compliance statement should be submitted in a tabulated and point wise manner. 
 All firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender clearly marking the quoted items and 
number with highlighter. If necessary demonstration will be taken to ensure product quality. 
 All items under particular serial number will be purchased together from single manufacturer. 
 Product quality certificate required. 
 
GROSSING STATION – 1 USER TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
1. Should be Stainless steel construction AISI-304. Bright polished finish for easy cleaning and disinfection. 
2. Left or right work area 
3. Should have Electric Anti-splash shield  
4. Lateral security windows (allowing external light to enter) 
5. Should have electromechanical lifting system 
6. DIMENSIONS 1500(W ) x 950(D) x 1950 to 2300 (H) approx. 
7. Should have 350mm lift range ,    
8. Should have 3 LED Lighting 
9. Should have Ventilated lower enclosure for formalin tanks 
10. Should have Footrest 
11. The station should have the possibility of working exclusively through filters, guaranteeing a clean environment 
without need of connection. 
12. Should provide Acoustic and visual alarms for system notifications 
 
For Working Area 
 
1. Should be provided with 2 Perforated removable trays 
2. Should have magnetic board for instruments  
3. Should have shelf  
4. Should have 2 electrical sockets  
5.  Should be supplied with waste bucket 
6. The Sink should have have dimension 400 x 400 mm approx 
7. Should have Medical mixer tap (H/C water)  
8. Should be provided with Medical mixer shower / Hydraulic hose with PVC cover  
9. Shower should have Water ozonisation system for disinfection 
10. Should have Formalin dispenser tap  
11. Should have Formalin sink with pre-filter and lid 
12. Should be supplied with Automatic formalin dispenser pedal  


--- Page 39 ---
                                                                  
                                                              Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/FMT/11/2021/GTE           
Page No. 39 
 
 
 
For Control Panel 
1. Should have ON/OFF light 
2. Should be able to provide Status of formaldehyde tanks 
3. UP/DOWN splash shield 
4. Should show Ventilation speed percentage  
5. Should allow to regulate ventilation speed 
6. Should show Hours of filter use 
7. Should have provision of Visual alarm 
 
For Ventilataion System 
1. Downdraft, updraft and backdraft ventilation 
2. Should have Ventilated lower enclosure for formalin tanks 
3. Should have Adjustable suction speed (5% intervals) 
4. Should have Maximum suction capacity of 1404 m3 / h 
5. Should have Emergency automatic ventilation system (in case of formalin spills) 
6. Should have Aluminium oxide filters with potassium permanganate impregnation specific for formaldehyde 
7. Should be provided with Filters useful life control system managed from touchable screen 
8. First notification for filters replacement should be of at 800h of use 
 
The System should be ISO:9001, ISO:13485 and CE certified from International Body 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 40 ---
                                                                  
                                                              Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/FMT/11/2021/GTE           
Page No. 40 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document for 
complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) 
Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning and Site 
Modification Work from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & 
handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by 
double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty 
period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College on 24 (hrs) X 7 
(days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service should 
be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the spares for the 
equipment shall be available for at least 
10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents (if they have the 
requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The 
same will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site Modification 
Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes preventive 
maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service /operational manual of 
the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory completion of Warranty period may be 
quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, 
other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The supplier 
shall visit each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer‟s technical/ service 
/operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) 
apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender Opening. The 
taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any 
such stipulation the price 
will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim for the same 
will be entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be taken at Net 
Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory completion of said 
period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee for 2.5% of the cost of the 
equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis, 
with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime period. 
f) During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee‟s site at least twice in 6 
months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, commencing 
from the date of the successful completion of warranty period for preventive maintenance of 
the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the Bank 
Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 41 ---
                                                                  
                                                              Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/FMT/11/2021/GTE           
Page No. 41 
 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, wherever required. 
The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be installed, in consultation with HOD 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College 
concerned. 
Site 
Modification 
Work 
details 
of 
each 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote 
prices indicating break-up of prices of the Machine and Site Modification Work of each 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be 
added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price will be 
taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderer’s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). 
The tenderer is to 
provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. accordingly failing which it’s tender is 
liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of equipment for 
carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should make sure that 
Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment to periodically check the electrical safety 
aspects as per BIS Safety Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety 
standard IEC- 60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not 
available they should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety 
compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development Centres across 
the country on every preventive maintenance call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and 
standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management information system 
(HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical training for 
personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at the institute immediately 
after its installation. The company shall be required to train the institute personnel onsite for a 
minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC period 


