--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Portable Color Doppler Ultrasound Unit                                                Admn/Tender/23-3/2018-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Portable 
Color Doppler 
Ultrasound 
Unit  
A state of art fully digital, compact portable Colour Doppler 
Ultrasound machine with pin less connector is required with following 
technical features. 
1. The unit must be compact, portable and lightweight, weighing 
less than 5.5 kg.  
2. Imaging modes  Real time 2D, Colour Doppler, Power 
Doppler, Pulsed wave Doppler, Continuous wave Doppler (on 
all cardiac transducers), Tissue Doppler Pulsed Wave Doppler 
(TDI PW) must be available. 
3. Unit should be able to give very high image quality with 
advance technologies for better tissue differentiation and edge 
detection, equivalent to high end cart based systems.  
4. System should be able to support speckle reduction imaging for 
better tissue differentiation and edge enhancement. 
5. The system shall have the ability to enhance tissue margins and 
improve contrast resolution by reducing artifacts and 
improving visualization of texture patterns & needle tip within 
the image, please specify the technology.  
6. System should have both online (Read) as well as 
offline(Write) zoom facility  
7. Imaging modes of Real time 2D, Colour Doppler, Pulsed wave 
Doppler, Continuous wave Doppler, Power Doppler must be 
available on all cardiac transducers. 
8. System must have fast start up to scanning in less than 30 
seconds from off condition, for use in critical and emergency 
situations.  
9. System should support transducer technologies like phased 
array, convex, linear, TEE etc.  
10. Cine memory on all modes.  
11. The system shall process a dynamic range that is at least 
165db. The system must display at a maximum depth of 35 cm. 
12. Unit must be sturdy, resistant to breakage & damage on fall/ hit 
against the wall or hard surface. The certificate must be 
attached. 
13. Flat LCD/ TFT monitor of at least 10 inches with flicker free 
image. 
14. Alphanumeric soft keys keyboard with easy access scans 
controls, facility to sanitize the system keyboard to avoid cross 
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Portable Color Doppler Ultrasound Unit                                                Admn/Tender/23-3/2018-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
contamination.  
15. The system must have the ability to function by AC/DC or 
battery power with the same degree of functionality, the battery 
life (run time) shall be al least 2 (Two) hours.   
16. The system must have archive capability for storage and 
retrieval of images and clips data. 
17. Data Transfer facility should be available as standard, to 
transfer images etc. easily onto another system/computer etc. 
18. System should possess software for Enhanced Needle 
Visualization to track the needle clearly at steep angles during 
the procedures while maintaining striking image quality of the 
target structures and the surrounding anatomy with simple 
On/Off functionality.  
19. The system shall support the all DICOM functionality, Storage, 
Print, and Work List, already to connect to PACS. 
20. The equipment should be mountable on trolley & locking 
mechanism should be inbuilt into the trolley for safety & 
security of the system. 
21. Unit should be USFDA or European CE Certified (with 4 digit 
notification number from a notified body). 
22. The firm must have minimum number of 50 installations in 
India, attach list of installations, and also provide performance 
certificates.  
23. The unit, transducers and all accessories should be covered 
with 
comprehensive 
onsite 
warranty 
for 
five 
years 
commencing from the date of issue of installation certificate 
Transducers & accessories to be supplied as standard:- 
1. 13-6 MHz 25-mm broadband linear array Musculoskeletal, vascular, 
nerve, superficial, venous, ophthalmic 
2.  8-5 MHz 11-mm broadband curved array Abdominal, neonatal, 
nerve, vascular. 
3.  8-4 MHz 10-mm broadband phased array Peadiatric cardiology, 
abdominal, neonatal head 


