--- Page 10 ---
 
Tender for Data Acquisition system for Human & Animal Physiology Experiments  
Admn/Tender/05/2019-AIIMS.GKP 
AIIMS, Gorakhpur 
Page 10 
 
 
Annexure-I 
 
Data Acquisition system for Human & Animal Physiology Experiments 
The System Should be able to record the Pulse, respiration, Bio-potentials like (EEG, ECG, EMG, 
EOG etc), hand Grip Strength, BP, heart sound, NCV, HRV, Static posturography, Reflex & reaction 
time, Peak Analysis, Pulse Transit Time and fore-arm plethysmography etc. 
Technical Specifications: -  
 Number of inputs 4 channels.   
 2 amplifiers for recording bio-potentials & 2 general purpose amplifiers channels. 
 1 stimulation unit capable of delivering square wave pulse of user defined parameters, Voltage 
range 0-10V, pulse duration range 0.1-1000msec, frequency range 0-100Hz, Current range 0-
100mA, Integrated and synchronised with software.  
 Data Sampling frequency more than 10Khz and linked to the computer through high speed 
USB2 port  
 Nerve and muscle chamber with holder, clamp, stand, recording and stimulation electrodes and 
micromanipulator. 
 High-grade Isotonic transducer range 0.1-2cm with a autozeroing and easy calibration 
 Facility for ECG leads (I, II, III, aVL, aVF, aVR etc) with real time cardiac axis and vector 
analysis. 
 Airtight chamber for forearm along with transducer for plethysmography experiments. 
 Stethography transducers for breathing experiment.  
 Four force sensor balance board for body sway analysis that communicate with the software. 
 Software with step by step instructions, protocol and experimental design for performing 
various experiments in physiology teaching applications. Also should have sample data for 
animal experiments for demonstrating to the students. 
 User friendly software for recording, analysing and printing the data, the software should allow 
calibration of transducers, display of actual values, controllable gain, filter settings, baseline 
setting for event marking and annotation. It should be capable of measuring time interval 
between user selected points, display of data value at user selected point, editing of the records 
and re-annotation. It should be capable of displaying data in scope mode and chart mode. It 
should allow calculation of rate, slope from raw channels in offline as well as online mode. 
 Necessary certificate for safe use for human. 
 Dual core i5/ processor based desktop computers with DVD RW,8-12 GB RAM, HDD 1TB, 
19” LED Monitor, Original Windows 10 OS, UPS and suitable printer should be supplied. 
 Mandatory demonstration and training.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


