--- Page 17 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/18/97/OT 
Page 17 of 22 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical Specifications for MOBILE IMAGING SYSTEM 
1. 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR  3D & 2D ISOCENTRIC MOBILE 
IMAGING SYSTEM WITH FLAT PANEL DETECTOR FOR NEUROSURGICAL 
& SPINE PROCEDURES 
 
State-of-the-Art, Compact, Easily Transportable, Digital Mobile C-Arm X Ray Unit with 
Flat Panel Detector for Neuro, Spine, Trauma & Surgical Procedures. 
 
The system should have the following essential features 
1.   Generator and X-ray Tube : 
      .   Generator should be microprocessor controlled with the following modes : 
              1. 2D Normal Fluoroscopy, Pulsed Fluoroscopy. 
              2. 3D Imaging (MPR, MIP) 
              3. Digital Radiography mode (Snapshot). 
. X-ray Generator should be minimum 20 KW or more. 
.  The range of KV should be 40-120 KV for each mode. 
. Tube Current should be upto 200mA or more. 
          Give details of: 
1. Pulse width: 
2. Pulse rate: 
       . The Generator should be capable of providing, Pulse Fluoroscopy with Pulse 
rates up to 20 Pulses/sec or more. 
       . X-ray tube Housing Heat Capacity should be minimum of 5 MHU or more for 
protracted procedures  
       . X-ray tube should have a: 
           1. Dual Focal spot of minimum 0.3 / 0.6 or better (for Fluoroscopy and 
Radiography) 
           2. Nominal X-ray tube voltage 100 KV or more. 
           3. Inherent filtration Al equivalent Please mention additional filters available. 
           4. Automatic Dose Control. 
       . Collimator unit:  
           1. Shutters / Diaphragm for symmetric radiation free collimation (Virtual 
Collimator) should be available. 
2. C- Arm: 
Give details of: 
       . Angulation and orbital movement 
       . Horizontal movement 
       . Longitudinal movement 
       . Swivel range 
       . Source to detector distance 
       . Depth of immersion 
       . The C-Arm depth should be 65 cm or deeper and Free space should be 80 cm or 
more to provide a large imaging space and C-Arm clearance around the patient and 
the imaging table. 
       . The C-Arm should have a Orbital rotation of 160° or more to allow the imaging 
chain to accomplish angled projections 
       . The C-Arm should provide side to side (wig-wag) and horizontal travel 
movements to allow panning during an imaging. 
       . The C-arm should be motorized in orbital, Angular, Horizontal and vertical 
movement, (please mention the specifications)  
       . The motorized C-arm should be controlled by Control panel (touch screen or 
joystick control) 
       . The C-arm should have memory to storage of positions (orbital & angulations) 
minimum 3 or more 
       . Motorized Home Position should be available. 


--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/18/97/OT 
Page 18 of 22 
 
       . Collision Protection for patient safety should be available  
       . The motorized movement has to stop immediately before touching the patient or 
object should be available. 
3. Flat Detector System 
        . The system should have a Flat Panel Detector of 1.5k x 1.5k resolution and 
minimum noise. 
        . The size of the detector should be minimum30 x 30 cm or more 
        . The pixel size should be 200 micron or less. 
4. Monitor Cart: 
. The system should be equipped with two high resolution 18" LCD/TFT monitors with 
Image matrix at least 1024 X 1024. 
5. Digital System & Image Management: 
        . Must be Fully Digital Continuous Imaging Chain for Acquisition, Processing, 
Storage, Archiving & Documentation. 
        . The system should possible to enter the patient data and for image annotation 
etc. 
        . The system should have multi patient data base for handling large quantities of 
image including Dose Management Report. 
        . The system should Automatically select proper imaging parameters. kVp and 
mA during imaging, but also provide the user to over-ride these settings manually. 
        . Should provide anatomical mode for different anatomical parts. 
        . Real time and Automatic Brightness and Contrast should be provided to 
optimize displayed image. 
        . Digital image processing up to 30 bit or more 
        . Touch screen control panel would be preferable. 
        . Annotation, measurement of angles and distances. 
        . Video output. 
        . There should be no interference from terrestrial magnetic field. 
        . Disk storage of minimum of 60,000 2D images in at least 1K X 1K matrix 
        . Touch screen control panel Should be available in c-arm cart & Monitor cart. 
        . OT table side(Side rail mounted)Third touch screen control panel should be 
available . 
        . Multi Funtional foot switch with additional functionality should be available. 
        . Trigger for pressure injector should be available in the system. 
        . Laser Positioning device should be available  in Flat Panel detector for dose 
reduction.  
6. 3D Workstation. 
            should be provide 3D Workstation with necessary hardware & following 
software: 
 
 Anatomical program for different anatomy parts. 
 
3D Visulalization with multiplayer reconstruction(MPR) & Volume Rendering. 
 
Slice planes: Axial, Coronal, Saggital should be available. 
 
3D volume should be minimum of 15cm cubic or 15cm cylindrical volume. 
 
3D volume resolution should at least 256 voxels or more. 
 
2D Cine loop of 3D acquisition should be available. 
 
3D acquisition time should not be more than 50 seconds. 
7. Image Processing: 
 
The following options should be available for Live and Post Image Processing. 
        . The system should provide a Last Image Hold Capability that the last image is 
displayed on the active monitor after the termination of an exposure. 
        . The system shall allow the user to change the Image Orientation on the display 
screen during live exposure or using the last image hold. Those functions include 
image rotation, left to right and top to bottom image reversals. 
. Recursive filters, Edge Enhancement, Windowing Level adjustment, Grayscale 
inversion, Digital Collimators, Zoom 3 Level,  
 


--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/18/97/OT 
Page 19 of 22 
 
8.Image Documentation: 
         . The unit should be advanced DICOM enabled. 
         . Should be possible to archive images on USB port (Format: DICOM & JPEG, 
Multimedia.) 
10. Essential Accessories: 
          . Online UPS of 10 KVA or more with at least 30 minutes back up for the 
complete C-arm. 
          . Zero Lead Aprons (light weight): 4 Nos. 
          . Thyroid Shield : 4 Nos. 
          . Gonad Shield : 4 Nos. 
          . Lead Spectacles : 4 Nos. 
          . Sterile covers (2 set reusable) for C-Arm, X-ray tube and Flat Panel Detector. 
12. Height & Weight: 
         The system should be minimum weight, compact size & Easy to transport. 
13. DSA should be provided. 
14. Other Features: 
Quoted equipment should meet European CE and USA FDA approval standards. 
The system offered should have AERB NOC / Type approval. 
15. Company should quote Optional accessories and Consumables if any. 
16. Warranty: 05 Years, CMC: 05 Years 
17. User training for surgeon and OT Staff has to be provided until they are familiar 
with the system use and sterilization. The company should provide one technician for 
a period of 05 years free of cost in strict compliance to the guideline of AERB. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


