--- Page 17 ---
Tender Enquiry No.  AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/2017/2681/OT 
 
Page 17 of 23 
6. 
Distribution Board  
1 no. 
7. 
Scrub Sink  
1 no. 
 
The bidder should provide. 
1. Installation of laminar flow and all others.  
2. All cable trenches and railings wherever required 
3. All electrical accessories like cable wire, electrical outlets, switches, etc. should be fire 
proof, of reputed make, and certified for electrical safety 
4. Bidder has to provide hatch box, storage shelves, surgical scrub basin and other service 
areas as mentioned in the bid 
5. Installation and commissioning of all equipment including laminar flow, door etc. 
mentioned in tender  
6. Any other necessary work required for satisfactory working of the OT and not 
mentioned. 
7. The Bidder shall have the technical service facility i.e. either a service franchisee or 
their own service centre within 50 k.m. of the hospital. 
8. The bidder should clearly mention the make, model and other details of each and 
every item in the tender bid. 
Technical Description    
1. Laminar Flow Air Ceiling 
 OT shall have Plan Air Ceiling in OR. The Plan Air ceiling shall be constructed out of 1.6 mm 
thick extruded aluminum sheet of size 2400x2400 mm having eight Nos. of HEPA filters with spot 
efficiency of 99.99% 0.3 micron. Having diffuser made out of SS for the plan air ceiling to give a 
“LAMINAR FLOW” of filtered air.. It shall also provide a shadow less lighting system with control on. 
All HEPA filters shall be factory tested and certified in accordance with DIN 1946 and DIN 4799. All 
ceiling shall include integral lighting and composite air / light diffuser.  Air shall be diffused into the 
theater uniformly over the total area. The laminar flow ceiling should also have illumination across its 
total area. 
The Laminar air flow system should comprise of thick extruded aluminum profiler frame and 
sealed gasket. The HEPA filters installed   in the plenum should be suitable for laminar air flow and 
clean room. The HEPA filters should meet the following specification. 
1. Should have a low pressure drop which should not exceed 60 pa. 
2. Should retain germs and dust particles with 99.99% efficiency 
3. Should provide air cleanliness as defied in the federal standard 209 E  
4. Should have epoxy painted micro drawn protective grid. 
5. Should have continues thermoplastic chord separators.  
6. should have polyurethane sealant 
7. Should have one piece Polyurethane Gasket. 
8. Should have MPPS Average efficiency >99.95% 
9. Should have 3 micron DOP efficiency >99.99%  
10. Should have Maximum Operating Temp. 600c and Maximum RH: 40-60% 
The Holding Structure, Filter Frame and Top Plenum should be made of 304 so and should be 
factory assembled.  


--- Page 18 ---
Tender Enquiry No.  AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/2017/2681/OT 
 
Page 18 of 23 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                              
 
 
 
2.  Pressure Dampers: 
  Installation of laminar should include Fabrication, Supplying installation of pressure relief damper 
statically and dynamically balanced made out of mm thick stainless steel of grade 304 of minimum 
size 300 mm x 300 mm with minimum three adjustable stainless steel blades complete as required. , 
Including – Ducting from AHU up to laminar and return Air ducts Material (22 Gage  Aluminum Sheet, 
Nitrile rubber pad Insulation ) 
i)  Operation Room shall be supplied with multi bladed damper unit specifically designed 
to control room air pressures and protection the Doors shall be provided within the modular 
panel. 
ii) Each stabilizer shall comprise of a matching slip over rear flange coated in white 
Polyester to RAL-9010 and exterior grille. 
iii) The pressure dampers shall contain four grade 304 SS Blades which pivot upon sealed 
for life bearing assemblies. 
3. 
Door and Frames: Hermetically Hinged Doors as per attached technical description ( one 
door for patient entrance and one for doctor in OT) 
To maintain sterility and correct air pressure in the room, all doors into and out shall be of sliding, 
hermetically sealing type.  Track system and door blade guide system: Track made of a patented 
anodized aluminum profile, size 90 x 110 mm. Length 2130mm, 1200mm dimensions. This rubber 
gasket is exchangeable. The door blade is 60 mm. thick and on both sides flush finished with hygienic 
hard plastic laminate.  The built up of door: Anodized aluminum surrounding, 4-sided, blind fixed. 
Door core made of CFC-free Polyurethane or EPS, thickness 48 mm. As top layer on both sides is hard 
plastic laminate of size 6mm. The total door blade thickness is 60 mm flush on both sides.  Frame 
profile: It shall be sliding door, standard delivered with an anodized aluminum angle profile. This 
aluminum profile is 3-sided and blind fixed to a finished wall opening. The door blade gasket shall 
seal the opening to this aluminum profile.  Lock in the door blade: lock for a automatic operated 
door. There shall be electro mechanical lock mounted on the track and on both sides a key-switch on 
the finished wall with Euro norm cylinder and 3 keys. Automation with 2 sensors foot operation and 
hand sensors (magic switch):  
Control: Microprocessor-controlled and regulated electromechanical sliding door drive.  
Power supply: 1*230 Vac +15% / -20% or 1*110Vac +30% / -20%.  
Frequency: 50 / 60 Hz and power Consumption -Minimal: 18 W and Maximal: 450 W.  
Drive: 3 phase AC motor and Nominal  
Motor power: 90W.  
Maximal Motor power: 225 W.  
Motor regulator: Microprocessor controlled motor driver.  
Max. door weight : 250 Kg and Max. door width: 3500 mm.  


--- Page 19 ---
Tender Enquiry No.  AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/2017/2681/OT 
 
Page 19 of 23 
Slow speed (V slow): 20 - 120 mm. / sec. and Starting speed (V start) :20-220 mm. / sec.  
Opening speed (V open) :V slow - 800 mm. / sec. and Closing speed (V close). V slow - 500 mm. / sec. 
Pedestrian opening: 10% - 90% of the available door opening. 
4. Surgeon Control Panel: 
Control panel shall have all the controls within the theatre will be located on a 
membrane type control panel mounted in the theatre wall. The panel shall incorporate all the 
necessary controls for the correct operation and monitoring of the equipment and services 
within the operating theatre. The time-elapsed digital clock and real time digital clocks shall have 
high brightness characters.  Medical gas alarm shall indicate High and Low gas pressure for each 
gas service present in the operating theatre and shall have an audible buzzer with mute facility. 
The medical gas alarms shall be connected to local pressure switches located downstream of the 
last isolation valves. Each control panel will be of 6 tiles and will have display for Time elapse 
clock, Standard Clock, Temperature and Humidity, Clean room luminaries, Telephone, Medical 
Gas Alarms. 
 4.    Distribution Board 
Electrical Distribution Board shall have all high voltage equipment shall be installed in a 
separate enclosure. The remote cabinet shall house the operating lamp transformers, mains 
failure relays, electrical distribution equipment and circuit protection equipment for all circuits 
within the operating theatre. All internal wiring shall terminate in connectors with screw and 
clamp spring connections of the Clip-on type mounted, on a DIN rail. Individual fuses or 
miniature circuit breakers shall protect all internal circuits. 
5. View Window 
Two no. of view window of specified size has to be provided with each operation theatre,  
 Double insulated fixed glazing with not less than 5mm thick toughened glass with 12 
mm air gap. Window frame is powdered coated Aluminum of approved shape flush Mounted 
with wall paneling.  
6. Surgical trolley 
Equipment cart, with 4 antistatic dual wheels, with locking wheels, 3 shelves, mains 
switch in the trolley, 1 drawer unit with lock, integrated cable conduits in the vertical beams, 1 
set of non-sliding stands for units, double rear panel with integrated electrical sub distributors 
with 12 sockets, holder for power supplies, potential earth connectors and cable winding on the 
outside, 2 scope holders, 2 equipment rails sidewise. Approximate dimensions of Equipment 
trolley: 530 x 1455 x 645 mm (w x h x d), shelf: 430 x 480 mm (w x d), castor diameter: at least 
125 mm. 
7. 
Scrub Sink. 
Surgical Scrub Sink 2 Bay with sensor operated should have following specification. 


--- Page 20 ---
Tender Enquiry No.  AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/2017/2681/OT 
 
Page 20 of 23 
1. They size of scrub sink should have 1300-1400mmL  x 1300-1400mm W x 450-500mm deep  
2. It should be made up of 16-gauge stainless steel 304-quality material. 
3. It should have removable plexi glass splash screen divider bay panel’s slandered. 
4. It should have adjustable thermostatic mixing valve for hot & cold water. 
5. It should be available in two bay sizes. 
6. It should have automatic timer system with provision for foot operated system. 
7. It should have touch free electronic sensor. 
8. It should have digital timer controllers.  
9. It should have radius chamber. 
10. It should be provide with two nos stainless stolen bracket hanger to hold the antiseptic solution. 
11. The unit should be duly felled and polished to mat finish. All the corners should be made round, 
all the welding should be argon arc process. 
12. To should be quoted with five year warranty. 
13. It should be CE & ISO certified. 
8. Hatch Box 
 The Hatch should be provided in each operation theatre to remove waste materials 
from the operation theatre to dirty Linen area just adjacent to Operation Theatre. Each Hatch 
should be equipped with two doors and the door should be opened one at a time. The Hatch 
should be designed in such a way that only one door should be opened at one time. The UV light 
should be so installed that it is kept on while both the doors are closed, this UV light has to be 
automatically turned off in case of opening of either of the doors. There shall be indicators on 
both side of OT so that door open/close status can be monitored from both ends. 
 
 


