--- Page 14 ---
Tender Ref.: AIIMS/BBSR/Paediatrics/2023-24/25 
 
P a g e  14 | 36 
 
 
 
 
3. Technical Bid (Specification): 
 
 
Name of the e-Tender: Supply, Installation &Commissioning of Equipment at AIIMS, 
Bhubaneswar. 
3.1 
Schedule of Requirements: 
 
The institute requires ___ nos. of equipment to be used by the Department of _________. The 
equipment is/are to be delivered within 90 days from placing of Purchase Order at the 
Central Store of AIIMS Bhubaneswar at the quoted/ negotiated price without any 
additional cost to the institute as per specifications given below: 
3.2 
SPECIFICATIONS OF Equipment/instruments: 
Specifications for Equipment for diffusion studies (pulmonary function) in children 
The equipment is required for performing following tests on children: 
1. 
Spirometry Tests:  
a) 
It should be suitable for tests in children including those as young as 4 years  
b) 
Should measure Forced Vital Capacity (FVC), Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 sec (FEV1), 
FEV1/FVC, Peak Expiratory Flow (PEF), Forced expiratory flow (FEF)25-75, FEF25, 
FEF50, FEF75, Slow Vital Capacity, Maximum Voluntary Ventilation 
c) 
All parameters should be measured pre and post bronchodilation and report should 
show pre, post and difference between two. 
d) 
There should be references standard for Indian children. 
e) 
There should be provision to view the curve while child is performing the test (A screen 
showing the curve) 
f) 
There should be provision for visible incentive for children to get cooperation  
g) 
Should have capacity to store>1000 tests and transfer of data to other PC 
h) 
It will be desirable if the data can be exported to Excel spread sheet for analysis and 
seeing trends. 
  
2. 
Lung Diffusion Capacity Tests: it should be able to perform by following methods in 
children including those as young as 4 years:  
a) 
Single breath 
b) 
Intra breath 
 
3. 
Rebreathing (on tidal breathing; No need to hold the breath): It should be able to 
provide maximum inspiratory pressure(MIP) and maximum expiratory pressure(MEP), 
maximum nasal inspiratory pressure (SNIP), p0.1  
 
4. 
Flowmeter: 
a)  
Bidirectional Re-usable  
b)  
Flow range 0.02 - 16 l/s 
c)  
Accuracy ±2%, 
d)  
Resistance <1 cm H2O/l/s @ 10-14 l/s 
 
5.  
Breathing Valves:  
a) 
The operation of breathing valves during tests should be fully automated 
b) 
 The breathing valve should be designed to be easily dismounted for complete 
sterilization 
c) 
It shall be supported by flexible table arm during test 
 
6.  
Gas Analysers: 


--- Page 15 ---
Tender Ref.: AIIMS/BBSR/Paediatrics/2023-24/25 
 
P a g e  15 | 36 
 
a) 
CO Analyzer:  Range 0–0.4%, 
b) 
Accuracy ±0.003%   
c) 
Should work independent of CO2 in gas sample 
d) 
 Inert gas analyser:  Range 0 – 0.35% 
e) 
Accuracy ±0.003% 
 
7.  
It should have predicted values for Indian/Asian children. 
8.  
Environmental Sensors: The system should have temperature, Barometric and 
Humidity Sensors. 
9.  
Test should be simulated without using gas for training of patient before actual test. 
10.  
Power Supply: The operating AC Voltage range should be 100-240V 
11.  
Interface: It should have interface for connecting to a computer 
12.  
Essential Accessories: The system should be supplied in plug and play configuration 
with all essential accessories required to run the machine including: 
a) Compatible Desktop PC core i7, 1TB HDD, DVD RW, USB 3.0 (one in no.) 
b) Laser Colour Printer (one in no.)  
c) UPS (should last at least 2 hours to run the machine) (One in no.) 
d) Mobile Trolley (One in no.) 
e) Diffusion Test gas cylinder (02 Nos) with regulator (One in no.), 
f) Bacterial Filters (200 nos.),  
g) Silicon Mouthpieces (200 nos.),  
h) Nose clips (100 nos.). 
 
13.  
Up-gradation: The system should be upgradable to measure following lung volumes: 
Total lung capacity, Functional Residual capacity (FRC), Residual Volume, Impulse 
oscillometry, Body box plethysmography 
14. 
Quality Assurance: The manufacturer should have CE (European)/US FDA/BIS 
certifications 
15.  
The system must meet latest ATS/ERS standardization guidelines 
16.  
Should be supplied with list of spare parts and consumables with price fixed for next five 
years 
17.  
It should have warranty of five years and CMC for 5 years after warranty 
18.  
Quotes should include costs of basic equipment along with all software 
19.  
Provision for training of personnel by an expert who has performed tests in children 
20.  
Demonstration of item is required during technical evaluation 
The company should indicate the number and cost of “Diffusion Test Gas Cylinders” required 
for period of 5 years for performing approx. 100 tests / year.  
 
3.3 
Technical Bid (Submission Format): 
 
The Scanned copies of the following Mandatory documents to be uploaded on e-Tendering 
Portal in the following format: 
 
 


