--- Page 11 ---
Balance Analysis System for dept. of PMR                  
 
 
           Admn/Tender/25/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
 
Annexure-I 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Balance Analysis 
System    
 
Balance System Tender Specification: 
 
 System should be useful for balance testing and training platform.  
 It should be portable not more than 65 x 65 cm and should not 
weigh more than 15 Kg  
 Should have measuring range of  0 – 180Kg /sensor 
 System should be powered by the USB. 
 System should be able to take  maximum user weight for Balance 
testing up to 180 kg  
 System should have protocol for Romberg 30 s, Romberg 1 min, 
Eyes Open, Eyes Close, Eyes open unstable and Eyes Close 
Unstable. 
 System should also have minimum 8 test protocols  
 System should have in built normative data with minimum of 1800 
normative tests 
 Should have maximum sampling rate of 400HZ 
 System should have facility to measure Limits of Stability  
 System should have facility to measure Squat  
 Should have at least 4-5 balance training exercises with several 
difficulty levels for every user  
 System should have facility to be used with regular small 
wheelchairs for core stability training  
 Should have low instep for patient safety. 
 Should have a possibility to treat patient with both foam and firm 
exercise. 
 Should have inbuilt calibration system before testing the individual 
for balance. 
 Should have Posturogram 
  Should have facility to trace the COP shifts with time, 90 percent 
confidence ellipse, trace length, standard deviation velocity, 
Romberg Quotient, Weight Distribution.       
 Should have Power spectrum. 
 Should have a Stabilogram for the analysis of balance test 
 Balance Platform should be supplied with foam pad for unstable 
testing, carry bag, computer system, Balance software and printer. 
 Balance platform should be mount on wooden platform with hand 
rails. 
Software should include: 
 
 Software should have facility of protocol wizard, with which the 
user can create own customized testing protocols.  
 Software should generate Gender and age specific comparison. 
 Software should include vestibular, medical and a dizziness 
handicap history questionnaire  
 Should have games based balance exercise. 
 Should have possibility to upgrade the balance software for testing 
and training 
 Should have possibility to create Database for persons and groups 
 Should have possibility to store Test results for later analysis and 
comparisons 
 Should have possibility to Print test reports 
01  


