--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Skull Clamp with Brain Retractor System                                                    Admn/Tender/144/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Skull Clamp 
with Brain 
Retractor 
System  
Description: It is for rigid fixation of skull during surgery so that there 
should not be any movement during using microscope.  
The items should be manufactured by firms of international repute and 
must have European CE, ISO and US-FDA approval. 
The firms quoting should supply all the Instruments and accessories of 
single make. No mix and match will be entertained.  
The firm must quote part number of each and every instruments and 
accessories in price and technical bid without which the tender will be 
rejected.  
All the items and accessories must have USFDA approval. 
It would have supplied it in prime institutions of India.  
Technical specifications:  
 
A. Skull Clamp System: 
1. It is for rigid 3 pin fixation of skull during surgery so that there 
should not be any movement during using microscope and High 
speed Drill.  
2. Fixation pins of adult and pediatric sizes  
3. Locking-unlocking mechanism of pin-attachments on side of the 
frame.  
4. Frame lock-unlock by rachet with pull mechanism. 
5. The System must be able to mix and match with future 
Radiolucent skull clamp/Radiolucent Base unit and Radiolucent 
Swivel Adaptor. 
6. The System must have Quick rail technology identifiable even 
under multiple layers of sterile drape, for attaching retractor 
systems and accessories at any position on the Quick-Rail. 
7. Stainless steel starbursts on both sides of the Skull Clamp 
provide direct and secure attachment of movement-sensitive 
navigation tracking devices (Stryker, Brainlab and Medtronic 
navigation systems directly applicable, should alleviate the need 
for additional adaptors). No play between arch-holder and Skull 
Clamp Base when locked 
8. Should have frame which can attach to existing OT table 
available at AIIMS, Jodhpur OT. 
 
Each unit/set should have  
1. Support/Mount device for base unit to any OT table (Original) - 
1 No. 
2. Ultra adjustable Base Unit- 1 No 
3. Ball Socket Swivel adaptor- 1 No. 
4. Swivel Adaptor – 1Nos. 
5. Skull Clamp- 1 No. 
6. Adult Reusable Pins in SS - 06 in No. 
7. Pediatric Reusable Pins in SS - 06 in No. 
8. Adult Horseshoe Head Rest with Extension bar for traction - 1 
No. 
9. Pediatric Horseshoe Head Rest- 1 No. 
10. Cervical Spine Support for Anterior spine surgery - 1 No. 
11. Crossbar Adaptor (Original) for sitting position - 1 No. 
12. Universal Side Rail (Original) - 2 Nos. 
13. Navigation Attachments for skull clamp which must be 
compatible with first line navigation systems (Stryker, 
02 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Skull Clamp with Brain Retractor System                                                    Admn/Tender/144/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medtronics, Brainlab). = 01 
14. Base Unit Park-bench = 01 
15. Armrest Park-bench = 01 
16. Side Rail OR Table Adaptor = 01 
 
B. Flexible Brain Retractor System   
1. The system must be fully compatible with existing cranial 
stabilization system available in Neurosurgery OR. 
2. The system should be simple and easy to set and provide full 
reach across the patient’s head.  
3. The system should eliminate the need of bulky C-Clamp and 
provide larger clamping area and should be mounted over 
several layers of drapes.  
4. The system should be very flexible and must be angled in any 
desired direction, angle and height and curved rods must be 
positioned parallel to the floor and independent of skull clamp 
position. 
5. System should be made of stainless steel and very light weight. 
6. System should consist of flexible rotary arms with 360-degrees 
rotation for precise position and real time adjustment.  
7. The flexible arm should have smooth movements and must be 
stable after reposition under tension.  
8. The flexible blades should provide non-stick and non-reflective 
surface in the surgical field. 
9. The System should be supplied with sterilization tray.  
The system configuration for single retractor system consists of the 
following:  
1. Quick clamp – 02 
2. Coupling clamp - 04 
3. Rod -02 
4. Curve rods -02 
5. Flexible rotatory arms, 280 mm – 03 
6. Retractor blade set 4-inches, black coated for anti-reflective and 
non-stick with width 6 to 25 mm– 05 blades. 
7. Serrated micro-retractor blade with 2 mm × 10mm, length from 
4.5’ to 6.5’- 03 nos. 
8. Hooked micro-retractor blade with 4mm × 10mm, length from 
4.5’ to 6.5’- 03 nos. 
9. Separate sterilization trays for retractor and flexible arm- 02 
((1+1)  
Halo Pattie tray- 01  


