--- Page 10 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
Technical Specifications for Picture Archiving and Communications System (PACS) 
Radiology information System (RIS), Vendor Neutral Archive (VNA) and Advance 
Visualization Software. 
 
1.      PACS OEM should bid directly and not via channel partner: 
  
2.      Vendor Should offer the Latest Product version which is released till and 
including RSNA 2018 as part  
of the solution offered 
  
3.      All software updation, upgrade and future release during warranty 
period(5+ 5 years) should be done  
free of cost 
  
4.      The uptime guarantee for the software and hardware should be at least 
99%(out of 365 days). 
  
5.      The vendor has to ensure the availability of a competent on Site engineer 
for 1 year. 
  
6.      System should be available through internet at all times. 
  
 7.The cost for hardware upgradation for server and storage at the end of fifth 
year to be quoted separately in  
BOQ. It will be considered for L1 ranking. Order and payment for same will 
be given as per requirements at  
the end of five years based on assessment by the department.  
  
8.PACS database should be running on Oracle/Sybase. 
 
9. The bidders should have registered their IHE Integration statement with 
IHE.net. Further, the RIS and   
PACS systems being supplied, should have implemented all transactions 
required in the IHE Technical  
Framework to support the IHE Integration Profiles with proof of their 
successful testing at an IHE  
connectathon not earlier than last 2-3 years on the website 
https://connectathon-results.ihe.net/ 
 
A)The proposal shall include:   
 
System pricing and line wise pricing of items. 
  
Technical description of the product offering and the specific configuration for the 
hospital. It must include the product datasheets including third party items. 
  
Individual responses to each normative requirement using the requirement identification 
numbers in this RFP.  
  
Information as required by other requirements in this RFP.  
  
  
  
B) The proposal shall also be submitted as a PDF File on a CD-ROM.   
  
The proposal shall explicitly identify every normative requirement of this RFP, which is 
not met by the vendor‟s offering.  If a requirement will be met in the future, the vendor 
may provide a schedule of commercial availability for future enhancements, which redress 
the non-compliance, together with their prices.  If a requirement will not be met by a 
planned enhancement of the system, the vendor may explain the impact of the deficit on 
overall system functionality.  
  
C)Tender document for Digital Healthcare Solution for Radiology  
  
1. Objectives of the Digital Healthcare solution for Radiology  
  
a) Total elimination of hardcopy of films needed for reporting in the Radiology Area.  
  
b) Add clinical tools for the entire enterprise 
  
c) Reduction in waiting time of radiological report.  
  


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
d) Provide simultaneous consultation with physicians inside and outside the hospital (for 
registered and not registered patients).  
  
e) Improve the availability /accessibility of patient data (Radiology image reports).  
  
f) Optimum use of human resources through a decreased rework (repeats, and an 
improvement in operational efficiency) and optimal work flow  
  
g) Integration of all imaging DICOM modalities and radiology reports (patient data) one 
to a reliable and accessible digital platform.  
  
h) Build a Clinical repository for DICOM & Clinical data with electronic charting using a 
single Digital Healthcare Platform 
  
i) To integrate HIS, RIS, PACS and the CIS platform for a seamless data exchange 
platform. Integration should be dynamic and bi-directional.   
  
j) Performance of the solution should be consistent and 95% uptime of the  working of the 
system should be ensured. 
  
 
 
2. Technical requirement for requested Digital Healthcare Solution  
  
i)System and Technical Requirements for Radiology Information System 
  
I. General Requirements  
  
a) 
RIS 
shall 
support 
all 
the 
standard 
Modules 
ie. 
Patient 
Registration, 
Appointment/Scheduling, Modality Worklist, Radiologist Worklist and Reporting.  
  
b) The system shall support scanning of hardcopy request forms and other documents and 
attach with a patient.  
  
c) The system shall be integrated with existing HIS. It shall be a Dynamic and bi-
directional integration.  
  
d) System shall support workflow for radiology orders which do not require scheduling 
(ex. X-Rays).  
  
e) The patient consent forms should be able to be scanned and attached into the system  
  
f) The system shall have an ability to insert a flag for attention for an examination. The 
flag shall be visible in all various worklists. The user typed comments shall also be 
visible.  
  
g) The system shall support sticky notes function. The sticky notes shall open as popup 
when a scan is opened.  
  
h) The system shall provide instant messaging functionality for users to communicate via 
system.  
  
i) It should be possible to view the details of personnel involved with the Order ie. who 
created the order, who scheduled/rescheduled it, scanning technician, draft radiologists 
and final report signoff radiologist.  
  
j) If the hospital has EMR/HIS, the RIS shall be integrated with it so that with a click 
radiologist can see other details of the patient.  
  
k) The system shall provide the section where all standard documents related to 
operations, policies; standard forms can be uploaded and kept for users to access it.  
  
l) System shall support multiple department workflows where multiple department users 
can work without being able to access other department data. For ex. Front Office of one 
department shall not be able to schedule cases of other departments.  Cross department 
access shall be limited and shall be available only to limited users.  
  
m) System shall support setting up Master Data from the Admin interface ex. Procedures 
List, Reporting Templates.  
  
n) System shall support transfer of orders from one department to another.  
  
o) System shall support multiple user profiles which includes the following but not limited 
to  
  


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
 1. Junior Resident  
  
 2. Senior Resident  
  
 3. Radiologist  
  
 4. Transcriptionist  
  
 5. Radiographer  
  
 6. Patient Service clerk & supervisor  
  
 7. Radiology Nurse  
  
 8. Administrator  
  
p) The system shall allow creating user groups and assigning users to groups. It should 
allow managing access rights both at group and individual user level.  
  
II. Patient Registration & Service Request  
  
a) Shall allow Patient registration with few details as mandatory. System shall be able to 
use the Hospital generated Medical Record Number (UHID).  
  
b) System shall be able to pull the patient details from the hospital HIS.  
  
c) System shall allow marking Patient Arrival status in RIS.  
  
d) The system shall support Patient Merge workflow.  
  
e) System shall capture and display health alerts.  
  
f) Able to scan various consent forms ex. Request Form, Consent Forms, Pregnancy 
Declaration forms etc.  
  
g) The document scanner shall be integrated with RIS.  
  
h) The system should support Pre-vetting capabilities.  
  
i) The system should support ability to order orders which should be sent to HIS.  
  
j) Allow the creation of a protocolling worklist for radiographers or radiologists with 
options to select standard performing protocols and free text field to document additional 
performing instructions to radiographers or communications with clinicians that will be 
visible to the radiographer when performing the study.  
  
k) System should be able to audit and track protocolling workload per user.    
  
l) Support more than 1 level of vetting e.g.  Radiographer or trainee performs vetting and 
with option to send to Radiologist to verify.  
  
m) Support seamless paperless communication between clerk, radiologist and 
radiographer during the vetting process.  
  
n) Have a means to support rejection of requests sent for vetting.  
  
o) Requested procedures or Imaging Requests that need clarification can be flagged for 
follow-up from Request creation.  
  
p) List of Requested Procedures or ISRs.  
  
q) Able to filter by Date/Time, Modality, Priority, Patient Type, Medical Service, Referral 
Location, Patient Class.  
  
r) Option to search for list of Requested Procedures by Patient ID, Patient Name, exam 
order ID.  
  
s) Print out Porter Slip with information like Patient ID, Patient Location  
  
t) Ability to sort list by different fields and select specific fields for display.  
  
u) Choice of giving an appointment or starting the procedure from the request list. For 
example:  
  
 1. For general Investigations, select procedure and start procedure. No need to 
book an appointment slot before starting the procedure.   
  
 2. For specialized Investigations like CT or MRI, book appointment, indicate 
arrival of the patient on appointment day, generate bill and continue workflow.  
  
v) Able to restrict cancellation of confirmed/performed orders to defined, configurable 
users/group.    
  


--- Page 13 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
w) The system should support printing of Radiology Request orders created in RIS or 
electronic radiology orders from EMR with relevant clinical and health information.  
  
III. Appointment / Scheduling  
  
a) Graphical representation of booking slots with comments and/or colour code showing 
reservation of slots for different types of procedures.  
  
b) Able to define slots in a room based on certain constraints e.g. urgent cases only, 
inpatient or outpatient. System should be able to use these constraints and rules to 
facilitate giving an appointment.  
  
c) Appointment diary to display available slots according to the procedure time. This 
improves utility of resource and eliminates waste gaps in appt time slots. Visually the 
schedulers can identify appointment time slots readily.  
  
d) Able to customize the number of booking slots available per day as duration of the 
procedures varies for different types of examinations. The system should allow reservation 
of appointment slots for specific procedures, by patient type (e.g. inpatient, outpatient), 
patient class, etc.  This should be easily visible to assist users in scheduling.    
  
e) Able to "suggest" an appropriate appointment date/time for patient based on certain 
rules and constraints, bypassing slots that do not meet the constraints for the patient.  
  
f) Ability to separate appointment resources by department and yet enable cross-checking 
and alert if patients have the same exam/other already performed in own/other department 
recently or already has an appointment made in different department within a specified 
number of days.  
  
g) Able to alert and prompt alternative appointments for multi-exam procedures requiring 
more than one procedure rooms.  
  
h) Able to define specific appointment slots for viewing and scheduling for certain 
category of users. Able to restrict booking into certain appointment slots in the scheduling 
book.    
  
i) Able to control rights for overbooking to authorized users. Configurable in terms of 
resource allowed overbooking, number of overbooking & types of procedures, etc.    
  
IV. Patient Check-in and Order Creation  
  
a) Support mapping of a specific procedure to different service code base on patient type, 
referring location, facility, performing department, procedure code etc. Example:  
  
b) Able to assign unique numbers (accession and order numbers) to identify the 
procedures and provide the link of results/ to images in PACS.  
  
c) Able to trigger charge or credit transaction to billing system(s) upon order entry or 
cancel or replace procedure respectively using HL7 protocol for communication.  
  
d) Able to capture the reasons for cancellation of procedures or no charge procedures or 
waiver of professional fees for audit purpose.  
  
e) Produce sticky labels with patient, visit, billing code and order related information upon 
check-in or order entry:                
  
 1. to show waiting/procedure room  
  
 2. to display accession/order number for identifying procedures for modality 
worklist and reporting  
  
 3. to paste on film envelope for film tracking and dispatching of films to GP 
referrals, non-resident patients, clinics, etc.  
  
f) System should have an easy way to do adhoc re-reprint of additional patient labels.  
  
  
  
V. Service Recording and Tech Module  
  
a) Filterable Worklist for scheduled/ordered procedures based on room, modality or 
location e.g waiting area. Able to configure fields and filters based on user preference. 
The system should have an option to save the user-defined worklist. Ability to print and 
  


--- Page 14 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 14 
 
export list.  
b) Be able to select multiple procedures from the worklist, and perform the same operation 
in one instance e.g start or complete procedure or assign reporting radiologist.  
  
c) Track procedure duration based on procedure start and complete times  
  
d) Track radiographer(s) who performed the procedure. Able to easily add additional 
operators.  
  
e) Track radiologist(s) who performed and reported the procedure.   
  
f) Track other personnel‟s involved in the procedure e. g nurses, patient's care-giver.  
  
g) Allow radiographers to enter technical comments for procedures performed to capture 
examination information e. g. Contrast usage, sequences performed, sonographic findings.    
h) Able to order/cancel/remove procedures. There should be a security object that controls 
cancellation of procedures that have been started or have images or reports.  
  
i) Exam status should include suspend and confirmed statuses or equivalent.  
  
j) Able to trigger messages to EMR/HIS for order/cancel/remove of procedures when 
applicable using HL7 protocol for communication  
  
k) MPPS from modality to RIS/PACS (including sequences) to plan examinations based 
on protocol.  
  
l) Reuse protocols from previous examinations when planning follow-up examinations at 
the same modality and for the same organ.  
  
m) To trigger a message to EMR/HIS upon examination started/completion.  
  
n) To alert referring clinicians through email or SMS upon examination completion if 
applicable.  
  
o) To allow radiographer to group/link 2 or more procedures to be reported together. 
Splitting of grouped procedures should also be possible prior to reporting.  
  
p) Allow radiographers to update reporting priority.  
  
VI. Reporting  
  
a) Able to import patient history into the Radiology report.  
  
b) An efficient way to assign a list of pending reporting tasks to a particular radiologist to 
report.  
  
c) Able to view at a glance outstanding reporting tasks based on each worklist eg. MRI (2) 
i. e. 2 MRIs not reported.  
  
d) Reporting templates and canned text should have both public and private options  
  
e) Standard word processing capabilities with spell checking function, formatting e.g. bold 
underline, italic and medical dictionary.  
  
g) Able to correct reports (alter original report text) after final/verified i.e remove original 
content but with history of original versions kept (versioning).  
  
h) Able to amend reports after finalised/verified as addendum i.e additional text on top or 
bottom of original report but leaving the original report text untouched.  
  
i) Allow specification and flagging of levels of abnormal reports.  
  
j) Allow radiologist to alert referring clinicians for abnormal and amended report i.e., 
either through email  
  
k) Flexibility to control printing of preliminary and final reports.  
  
l) The printed radiology report should have the time stamp of when the report was printed.    
m) Option to automatically utilize pre-defined fields of data captured in the acquisition 
notes or technical comments (input by radiographer) to pre-populate to the radiology 
report.  
  


--- Page 15 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 15 
 
n) Cases reported by the resident should route to the radiologist's work-list for verification 
regardless of mode of report creation.  
  
o) Cases awaiting verification by the resident will auto-route to the radiologist's work-list 
for verification after user specified time frame.  
  
p) Allow more than one radiologist to verify a report (co-read).  
  
q) Able to track both the reporting and verification radiologist and easily determine the 
person that needs to verify the report or perform an action that will allow the report to be 
finalized.  
  
r) Able to print a verified radiology report with name(s) of reporting and verifying 
radiologists, date/time of verification in a format acceptable to the institution. If 
preliminary reports can be printed, specify if there are distinguishing factors that 
differentiate it from a verified report e. g a watermark.  
  
s) Allow to print a verified report on an adhoc basis.  
  
t) Able to distribute verified reports by sending of reports by email.  
  
u) Reporting module should have a lock feature that prevents radiologist from starting a 
report on an examination that has already been opened for reporting by another radiologist 
regardless of screen refresh.  
  
v) If reporting module supports viewing of more than 1 patient's images at a time, then the 
module should have a warning feature that alerts the radiologist if starting to report or 
saving / verifying a report for a procedure when another patient's images are opened for 
viewing; e. g. Patient 1 images and report editor are open for reporting. Patient 2 images 
are opened for a quick review with clinician without closing Patient 1 report editor and or 
images. Subsequent with patient 2 images still open, radiologist wishes to Save or Verify 
patient 1 images, warning message should appear.  
  
  
  
3. System and Technical Requirements for Enterprise Digital Healthcare Platform 
  
I. General Requirements  
  
The below mentioned specifications of each component of hardware and software are 
the minimum required. However, may quote an equivalent or advanced version that is 
commercially available or likely to be commercially available at the time of purchase. 
Further the compatibility of the quoted items with each other and with the existing system 
if any is an essential requirement.  
  
The vendor should take an overall responsibility of both the software and hardware 
components including all licenses for complete maintenance for time of warranty. It is the 
duty of the vendor to visit the site and study the existing workflow that can be utilized for 
their proposed solution and quote in the tender (if anything extra required) for the 
optimum and consistent functioning of the propsoed digital solution. 
  
It will be the responsibility of the vendor to demonstrate capabilities/functions quoted to 
the technical evaluation committee onsite if required.   
  
a) Fully integrated Digital Solution for Radiology  
  
b) Easily Deployable with simple web based interface.  
  
c) Multimodality connectivity, advanced work list, image processing tools with electronic 
charting for Clinical devices 
  
d) Should provide connectivity to Clinical devices like Critical care monitors, ventilators 
etc 
  
e) ZFP module allowing access of images remotely with all tools using low internet 
bandwidth.  
  
f) DICOM Film Print support.  
  
g) CD /DVD writing support with embedded DICOM viewer.  
  
h) Archiving Module.  
  
i) HIPAA & HL7 Compliant.  
  


--- Page 16 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 16 
 
j) Stat reads highlighted and automatically takes priority.  
  
k) Search criterion on various parameters like Patient ID, Name, Accession No, Date 
Hospital Name, Referring Physicians etc.  
  
l) Compressed image support for faster downloads.  
  
m) Prefect option to download priors automatically reducing waiting time for the 
radiologists.  
  
n) Ability to load different studies, side by side for comparison.  
  
o) PACS Solution should be Truly web based with all features like CD/DVD Writing, 
Film printing, Image viewer and Reporting module available through browser from any 
station. No installable software should be required to use these functions from any station.  
  
p)RIS PACS solution should be on a high availability with Active-Active mode with 
hardware redundant servers along with the load balancers using VMWare technology . 
 
q) It should be possible to import images from external CD/DVD directly into the system 
without any external software/workstation.  
  
r) Report text search engine should be available.  
  
s) Should support DICOM MWL integration with all modalities. It should be possible to 
view the DSA images in the subtracted mode either in cine or photo file modes.   
  
t) Roaming profile – user definable settings.  
  
II. Image Processing Tools should be available in the Radiologist viewer  
  
a) Window / Level – Manual or Pre-sets.  
  
b) Image Scroll on Mouse.  
  
c) Pan and Zoom.  
  
d) Flip, Rotate, Invert.  
  
e) Crop – Elliptical, Rectangular or Freehand.  
  
f) Cross Reference Lines.  
  
g) Movie mode with speed control.  
  
h) Measurement: Linear, Angular, Cobbs Angle tool.  
  
i) Annotations like text, pointer, line etc.  
  
j) HU Value display – Point and average.  
  
k) Multi-frame image display support should be available  
  
l) Image display Matrix 1 x 1, 2 x 2, 3 x 3 etc.  
  
m) Series Display 1 x 1, 2 x 2, 3 x 3 etc.  
  
n) Image Linking – Interlink series for synchronized scrolling of images.  
  
o) Spine labelling tool – Automatically labels Vertebral Bodies or Disc space with just a 
mouse click.  
  
p) Magic Slice – Allows the radiologist to click on any part and see the corresponding 
slice.  
  
q) MIP, MPR, 3D, Volume Rendering tool is required for every Diagnostic user and it 
must be browser based. Volume render application should be from same PACS OEM.  
  
r) Curved Planar Reformats (CPR) tool is required for every Diagnostic user  
  
s) Automatic Image Registration and Fusion tool is required for every Diagnostic user  
  
t) Inbuilt chat module is required  
  
u) Image export to JPEG/BMP/TIFF formats  
  
v) Auto Edge detection on image   
  
w) Ability to create Key series/merge 2 studies/split a study  
  
x) Embedded MIP  
  


--- Page 17 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 17 
 
y) Embedded MPR  
  
z) Basic Measurements  
  
 1. spine labelling  
  
 2. cobb angle   
  
 3. Leg length difference  
  
 4. horizontal alignment  
  
 5. vertical alignment  
  
III. Following Hanging Protocols Tools should be available in the viewer  
  
a) Provide easy access to a gallery of prepared hanging protocols from which the user can 
choose.  
  
b) Support the option to create hanging protocols by drag and drop actions.  
  
c) Support the functions to have both user and system level hanging protocols  
  
d) Upon opening a study, provide the correct hanging protocol should immediately be 
used to display the images. This automatic selection should be based on:  
  
 1. body parts  
  
 2. modality Types  
  
 3. procedure codes  
  
e) Allow to create a display workflow based on hanging protocols. Each hanging protocol 
can contain one or more presentation groups and the user shall be able to easily and 
intuitively navigate through all presentation groups that are part of the hanging protocol. It 
shall be possible to have the system automatically select a correct hanging protocol and/or 
presentation group based on body part, modality type or procedure code  
  
f) Support the functionality to have dedicated hanging protocols for comparison of studies    
g) Allow the user to Interactively change the layout:  
  
 1. viewport tiling  
  
 2. full screen layout  
  
 3. add/merge viewport  
  
h) Allow for dynamic hanging protocols where:  
  
 1. the renderer (3D, MIP/MPR, …) can be changed in each viewport on the fly  
  
 2. viewports can be added on the fly  
  
 3. Images can be added by drag and drop from the clinical sidebar  
  
 4. comparison with prior studies can be made  
  
i) Within the image area, provide a list of all studies for the active patient. This list should 
allow the user to select additional studies to display without the need for major mouse 
movements  
  
j) Support the creation and usage of Multi-modality hanging protocols  
  
k) Provide auto combine of series:  
  
 1. US single frame  
  
 2. CR/DX  
  
 3. RF  
  
IV. Following features should be available in the ZFP Diagnostic viewer   
  
a) FDA Approved for Diagnostic Reading  
  
b) Basic Measurements  
  
 1. Angle  
  
 2. Distance  
  
 3. Cobb Angle  
  
c) MIP  
  
d) MPR  
  


--- Page 18 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 18 
 
e) Multi Monitor Support  
  
f) Ability to see Images & Report  
  
g) The ZFP Client should NOT be showing the Thin Slice Data to the Clinicians when 
they login to the PACS 
  
h) But the ZFP Client should show all the Series data (Thick & Thin) to the Radiologist 
which are pushed to the PACS from the modality when the radiologist login to the PACS 
system 
  
i)  The ZFP viewer should be configured to display time-bound exams to the clinicians 
(ex. Exams for only last 6 months only without the thin slice sections) and this should be 
configurable   
  
j) The mentioned functionality in point g, h & I should also be available in the Mobility 
viewer for Radiologist & Clinicians 
  
k) Image data which is restricted to Clinicians can be made available to clinicians even if 
it is older than for example 6 months on ad hoc basis post approval in the PACS system 
  
Security 
  
a)   All user access (ex. login, study access, report access) should be saved into 
database as AUDIT TRAIL and this should be accessible/searchable by 
Administrator 
  
b)  Vendor will provide applicable antivirus Software for the various clinician and 
Radiology terminals. 
  
4. Software Licenses  
  
A)License requirement for RIS PACS Solution 
  
Price for 5 additional licences to be bought as a batch should be clearly quoted. The 
same will be frozen for a period of 10 years. 
 
Unlimited Modality connectivity including for MRI, CT, PET, SPECT, NM, X Ray, US 
(as and when needed)  
  
RIS User Licenses (Reception/Technologists, Transcriptionist/Radiologist) for RIS 
Application  
 50 
concurre
nt user 
licenses 
200K Exams per year license for Radiology Viewer  
  
200K Exams per year license for Clinical ZFP FDA Diagnostic Approved Viewer with 
unlimited user license.  
 
200K Exams per year license for PACS VNA (Dicom)  
  
200K Exams per year license for Mobility Viewer on Tablet with unlimited user license 
for iPad/TAB viewing licenses 
  
3D post processing applications should be from the same OEM who is providing the 
PACS. Third party 3D post processing applications should not be quoted.  
  
3D post processing applications should have a common database with the PACS. There 
should be no separate storage needed for the 3D post processing applications.   
  
The 3D post processing capability should be embedded inside the PACS viewer 
  
3D Post processing License for 200K Exams per year for and below application available 
on all Radiology Workstations 
200k per 
year 
with 
provisio
n of 
15% 
cumulati
ve 
annual 
escalatio
n 
 - Pre Processing 
 - Volume Rendering 
 - Auto Bone Removal 
 - Multi Modality Fusion 


--- Page 19 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 19 
 
The batch price for 25000 exams per year for further expansion to be quoted clearly. 
The same would be frozen for a period of ten years. 
 
B) Advanced 3D post processing Tools needed on Concurrent user basis which are 
embedded with PACS Viewer 
The 3D post processing capability should share the same Database as PACS and 
should not needs its own separate storage 
  
  
Price of one additional licence to be quoted clearly. The same would be frozen for a 
period of ten years. 
 
Stroke Analysis Software 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
Oncology Quantification Software including RESIST & WHO 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
Lung Nodule Visualization and Analysis Software 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
PET Lesion Management Software including RESIST, WHO  & Functional PERCIST 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
Virtual Colonoscopy Software 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
Extract CT angio data from CT Perfusion Exams 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
MR Elastography Tools 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
MR Tools for ADC, DTI, Spectroscopy and Fusion 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
MR Multi Parameter imaging for Body and Breast 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
MR Multi Parameter imaging for Brain 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
CT Vessel analysis with automated real time tracking and labelling 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 


--- Page 20 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 20 
 
MR Tools for Vessel assessment 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
Cardiac anatomical, functional and perfusion information 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
CT Perfusion for complete perfusion assessment for Multiple Organ 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
CT Perfusion for complete perfusion assessment for Brain 
 
5 
concurre
nt user 
license 
The following advanced application software should be available with the vendor. They 
have to be quoted as optional with separate pricing for each (the same would be frozen for 
a period of 5 years). This price will not be considered for L1 evaluation: 
CT cardiac 4 chamber analysis 
CT cardiac perfusion 
Lung airway analysis 
Lung resection analysis 
4 D perfusion for brain 
Kidney volumetry 
MR Coronary analysis 
MR Liver analysis 
MR Prostate viewer 
MR Breast analysis 
CT abdominal perfusion 
Non brain ADC viewer 
 
 
5.The proposed hardware should be deployed and configured in a virtualized environment 
using Vmware ESXi Hypervisor. Below mentioned architecture is provided for reference.    
i. PACS Workstation Diagnostic Monitor 4MP 30” Fusion display  
 2 in 
number 
Fusion 4MP LED can be used as two seamless 2MP heads or one wide-screen 6MP 
display. 
  
Screen technology TFT AM Colour LCD Dual Domain IPS-Pro and LED backlight. 
  
Active screen size (diagonal) 772 mm (30.4) 
  
Pixel pitch 0.256 mm, colour and grey scale imaging. 
  
Features to improve and maintain image quality such as Ambient light compensation, 
Uniform Luminance technology and I guard sensor 
  
Maximum Luminance 1050cd/m2, DICOM calibrated at 600cd/m2 with Contrast ratio of 
1500:1. 
  
Screen protection Protective, non-reflective glass cover 
  
Response time 18ms, Video input signals DVI-D Dual Link (2x), Display Port (2x) 
  
Display Card with support for 4 displays – Online QA software 
  
System should come with a touch pad and should have features like Spot view, dim view 
and profile setting function for Radiologist  
  
ii. PACS Workstation Diagnostic Monitor 2MP colour display (dual head) 
 3 in 
number 


--- Page 21 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 21 
 
Screen technology LED IPS-Pro. 
  
Active screen size (diagonal) 540 mm (21.3) 
  
Pixel pitch 0.27 mm, colour and grey scale imaging. 
  
Features to improve and maintain image quality such as Ambient light compensation, 
Uniform Luminance technology 
  
Maximum Luminance 800 cd/m2, DICOM calibrated at 500cd/m2 with Contrast ratio of 
1400:1. 
  
Response time 10ms, Video input signals DVI-D (1x), Display Port (1x) 
  
Display Card for proposed monitor 
  
iii. PACS Workstation Diagnostic Monitor 3MP colour display  
 1 in 
number 
Screen technology TFT LCD IPS. 
  
Active screen size (diagonal) 540 mm (21.3) 
  
Pixel pitch 0.2109 mm, colour and grey scale imaging. 
  
Features to improve and maintain image quality such as Ambient light compensation, 
Uniform Luminance technology  
  
Maximum Luminance 900cd/m2, DICOM calibrated at 500cd/m2 with Contrast ratio of 
1400:1. 
  
Screen protection Protective, non-reflective glass cover 
  
Response time 20ms, Video input signals DVI-D Dual Link, Display Port 
  
Display Card for proposed monitor 
  
  
  
iv. PACS Workstation Clinical Monitor 21" display  
 18 in 
number 
Screen technology TFT colour LCD 
  
Active screen size (diagonal) 541 mm (21.3) 
  
Pixel pitch 0.270 mm, colour and grey scale imaging. 
  
Features to improve and maintain image quality such as Ambient light compensation 
  
Maximum Luminance 420cd/m2, DICOM calibrated at 250cd/m2 with Contrast ratio of 
1500:1. 
  
Video input signals DVI-D, Display Port 
  
Display Card for proposed monitor 
  
v. PACS Workstation(compatible with above mentioned diagnostic and clinical 
grade monitors) 
24 in 
number 
Model - DELL 7810 or equivalent 
  
CPU - One Processor - Intel E5-2637v3 
  
Cores per Process - 8 
  
Memory - 16 GB 
  
Hard drive - 512GB SSD or 1TB SATA 
  
NIC - 1GB 
  
Display Card - ATIW2100:should be compatible with the workstation monitors 
  
Operating System - Windows 7 Professional 64 bit 
  
DVD - DVDRW media drive 
  
Power Supply - Single Power Supply 
  
Software License - Necessary software for integration 
  
  
  
vi. Desktop PCs(to be used at RIS stations) 
 15 in 
number 
Intel processor, 4GB RAM, 500 GB HDD, CD/ DVD 
  


--- Page 22 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 22 
 
20" Monitor, Keyboard, Mouse 
  
Display card: 2GB or more 
  
Operating system: Window 10 or later 
  
 
 
vii. Black and white laserjet printers from HP or equivalent brand 
5 
6. Specification for the  Healthcare Digital Solution Servers  
  
I. Servers  
 4 in 
number 
Rack Server with Redundant Power Supply   
  
Dual Processor - Xeon 8 Core V4  
  
64 GB RAM   
  
10x1.2 10K RPM SAS HDD with RAID-5 Support  
  
Quad Port PCI 1Gbps NIC  
  
Windows 2012 x64 R2 Standard Edition  
  
II. Specification for the  Healthcare Storage   
  
Configuration of Storage to be offered – Primary Storage  
1 in 
number 
Storage with Dual Controller and Dual port FC/iSCSI connectivity per controller 
  
84x1.2TB useable storage 10K RPM SAS HDD with RAID-5 Support  
  
Dual Port 12 Gbps SAS Port  
  
12 Gbps Dual Port SAS Card for above Rack Servers  
  
The vendor should clearly mention the price for buying additional storage in batches of 
10TB(useable).The price for the same would be fixed for a period of 10 years. 
 
III. Specification for the  Healthcare  Storage  
  
Configuration of Storage to be offered – DR Storage  
 1 in 
number 
Storage with Dual Controller and Dual port FC/iSCSI connectivity per controller 
  
25x4TB useable storage7.2K RPM NL-SAS HDD with RAID-5 Support  
  
Dual Port 12 Gbps SAS Port  
  
12 Gbps Dual Port SAS Card for above Rack Servers  
  
The vendor should clearly mention the price for buying additional storage in batches 
of 10TB(useable).The price for the same would be fixed for a period of 10 years. 
 
IV.CD/ DVD Publisher (with provision to print AIIMS Jodhpur logo on CDs) 
 1 in 
number 
Rimage 7200 Cd/DVD 
  
Number of Recorders - 1/2 
  
External Output Bin Capacity - 100 
  
  
  
V. Reference Solution Architecture  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
Server 1 
Server 3 
Server 4 
Server 2 
Primary Storage 
(High Performance) 
Secondary Storage 
(DR Copy) 


--- Page 23 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 23 
 
7. Terms and Conditions for proposed Healthcare Solutions 
 
  
 
1. The PACS application should be US FDA / CE certified (not more than 3/4 years old) 
and fully scalable RIS-PACS system.  
  
 a. Separate Certificate for Radiology Viewer of PACS  
  
 b. Separate Certificate for Clinician Viewer (ZFP) of PACS  
  
 c. Separate Certificate for RIS  
  
2. The system should have IHE certification.  
  
3. „PACS Solution should have been implemented for at least 250 sites either in India or 
globally which includes two or more 800+ bedded hospitals.‟ 
  
4.„Company should be present and operating in India for minimum 10 years or more.‟ 
  
5. The RIS-PACS vendor should have experience integrating the quoted solution to an 
HIS/ EHR solution for receiving orders and forming DMWL for modalities. It should 
integrate with the existing HIS solution present in the hospital. The solution should also 
have an ability to provide/ share the radiology reports based on parameters. List of 
minimum 10 such installations in India to be provided.  
  
6. In addition to the FDA certificate for RIS-PACS application, the vendor should offer 
US FDA certified Zero Footprint viewer capable of displaying full fidelity (diagnostic 
viewing) DICOM images. The viewer must allow image access from any device 
(computer, IPAD, Tab, etc) using standard browsers eg. Mozilla, Safari, Internet Explorer. 
ZFP should be FDA diagnostic approved.  
  
7. Vendor to provide PACS IHE Integration Statement for the proposed solution with 
supported Integration profiles as part of the bid.   
  
8. Warranty: Vendor should provide a solution with 5 year warranty and subsequently 5 
years CMC 
  
9. All existing Radiology modalities should be linked to the proposed solution and vendor 
must ensure integration of any new radiological modality in future without any additional 
cost.   
  
 
 
8. Vendor Qualification Criteria  
  
a) The vendor should have a successful track of deploying PACS systems in the country. 
Vendor should be more than 10 years in PACS business in India 
  
b) The vendor should have installed and managed a RIS & PACS Site for more than 10 
Years for at least two hospitals in India 
  
c) The vendor should have min installation base of 10 PACS systems with minimum 2 
installations in more than 800+ Bed hospitals in India 
  
d) Vendor should have 2 sites in India with load equal or more than 200K cases per 
annum. 
  
e) Vendor should have done Enterprise PACS installation in India connecting minimum 4 
hospitals/sites with the Central PACS. 
  
f) Financial qualification criteria   
  
 1. Should be a registered company in the country for last 10 Years  
  
 2. Should be doing a turnover of 100 Crore or more for last Financial Year  
2 
g. All the proposed IT solutions included in this tender should be from single OEM. Third 
party clinical OEM products cannot be quoted.  
4 
  
2 
  
4 
 


--- Page 24 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 24 
 
1. Civil works 
Interior 
  
 The vendors are requested to visit the site to 
assess the requirements of turnkey. Pertinent 
points may be discussed during the pre-bid for 
clarifications 
  
Sl.No 
PARTICULARS 
 
1 
Dismantling  
All types of masonry works, plain & reinforced 
concrete tiles floor tranc, plaster, M.S.Grill  door, 
window and stacking serviceable materials and 
dumping                           
 
2 
False flooring 
Providing & fixing stringer based raised access floor 
of approved make metal cladded system finished in 
bare finish : Panel Construction: Panels of size 600 
mm X 600 mm are manufactured from pressed form 
corrosion resistant galvanized steel. The above 
hollow panel shall have an infill of light weight 
cementatious material. The entire panel shall be 
coated with epoxy coating on the exposed surface. 
Pedestal construction shall be all steel construction, 
zinc plated and consisting of anti vibrational head 
cap with cruciform up stands and four panel locating 
studs, positively clipped to the steel top plate . 
Pedestal shall be screwed to floor.  Uniformly 
distributed load shall be 12 kN/m2 Concentrate point 
load : 4.0 kN over 25 sqmm. Floor void should be 
450 mm minimum from underside of raised floor pan 
to finish slab. Provision should made for satisfactory 
earthing for all floor tiles. 
 
3 
Brick Work 
Brick work of thickness 230 mm and above of any 
shape except curved using selected quality burnt clay 
FPS bricks (Crushing strength not less than 75 
kg/sqcm) in super structure laid in cement mortar 6:1 
(6 coarse sand : 1 cement ) mix, joints finished, flush 
raked to 6mm depth including jointing with concrete 
( with holdfast) where required and as per 
specification and drawing or as directed by Project 
Manager. 
 
4 
TMT 
Providing and Laying and fixing in position Thermo 
mechanically Treated reinforcement (TMT of all 
grades) in all reinforced concrete work, including 
straightening, cutting, removal of loose rust by wire 
brush and coating with cement slurry, bending, 
hoisting, laying in position to the shape and profile 
required at all levels and heights as per drawing and 
design and/ or as directed, with18 guage MS binding 
wires etc. complete. (Quoted rate also to include 
providing & fixing the binding wire,  PVC cover 
blocks, Chairs, Spacer etc.) 
 


--- Page 25 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 25 
 
6 
 Plain cement 
concrete 
Providing, laying using pumps & testing cast - in - 
place structural controlled cement concrete grade 
M25 using 20mm down coarse aggregates excluding 
cost of centering, shuttering and steel reinforcement 
but including cost of making shear keys and 
provision of construction / contraction / control joints 
in various locations, laid, consolidated and cured, 
item to include all structural items like base raft, 
ramp, column, wall, footings, equipment foundations, 
fins, mullions, beams, lintels, pergola, chajja, facia, 
parapet, railing, slab trenches, drains and sumps etc. 
of any shape and sizes.  The rates of concrete to 
include the cost of admixtures / plasticisers to 
achieve specified strength. This item to also include 
the concrete requiring waterproofing compound like 
water tanks, basement retaining walls, base raft, 
leaving sleeves to beams etc. complete. 
 
7 
PCC 
4: 2 : 1  ( 4  graded stone aggregate 20 mm and down 
gauge. : 2 coarse sand : 1 cement )  
 
8 
Lintel 
2: 1 : 1  ( 4  graded stone aggregate 20 mm and down 
gauge. : 1 coarse sand : 1 cement )  
 
9 
Plaster 
Providing and applying 15-20 mm cement plaster on 
the walls of mix 1:4 ( 1 cement : 4 sand ) including 
racking joints, curing, scaffoldings etc complete as  
directed 
 
10 
Soft board 
Providing & Fixing Soft Board panelling over 
framework of 25 mm x 18 mm T.W. Frame at 600 
mm c/c with 6mm comm. ply skimming on top & 
12mm thk. soft board with fabric finishing over 6mm 
ply. Complete as per drawings & directions of the 
Architect.  25 mm x 12 mm T. W.Moulding on 
edges(Basic Price of fabric RS:200 -/ meter). 
 
11 
Glass 
partition 
Providing and fixing glass partition in line, level and 
plumb made out of 12 mm thk toughened glass of 
Saint Gobain or equivalent approved make using 
Anodised Aluminium U channels fixed in wooden 
frame, with joints in-between glass should be filled 
with clear acoustic sealant etc. all complete as per 
architects instructions. All exposed edges of the glass 
shall be machine polished. The rate of glass shall be 
inclusive of chamfering, cutting of glass, joint filling, 
octroi, loading - unloading, delivery on site and taxes 
thereon. etc.  
 
12 
Glass door 
Providing & fixing 12 mm thk Toughened Glass 
door with top & bottom Patch Fittings  Floor Spring, 
Door Stoppers, Handle -2100x1200 mm  Bottom 
Locks and all required accessories. 
 
13 
Vinyl 
Flooring 
Providing and fixing 2mm thick Roll / TILED  
formed 
conductive 
vinyl 
flooring 
make 
of 
Armstrong/Jarflor LG Wonder or approved make laid 
on the existing floors  as per the drawing 
 


--- Page 26 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 26 
 
14 
Modular 
Ceiling 
Providing and fixing Mineral Fibre Board 
modular Ceiling in Armstrong / Nitobo or 
Equivalent  make as approved by Architect in  
Mineral textured tiles with approved surface pattern 
of size 600 mm X 600 mm  having  Noise reduction 
Co-efficient 0.7,  light reflection over 75%, Relative 
Humidity 95%, Suspension system of Silhouette 
reveal profile grid system with 15 mm wide flanges 
incorporating a 3 or 6 mm central recess of colour all 
white or all black or white with black as directed, 
Silhouette main runners and cross tees to have mitred 
ends and "birds mouth" notches to provide mitred 
cruciform junction, fixed to the structural soffit by 
Butterfly clip hangers suspension wires & anchor 
fasteners as per the manufacturer's specification, 
Suspension wires to be provided at every 600 mm c/c 
with two nos of ties on each anchor fastener, 
Perimeter trim of Trulok wall angle in white colour 
secured to wall at 450 mm maximum centres. 
 
15 
Gypsum 
ceiling 
Providing and fixing Gypsum False Ceiling of 
India Gypsum make which includes G.I. Perimeter 
Channels of size 0.55 mm thick ( having One Flange 
of 20 mm. and another flange of 30 mm and a web of 
27 mm ) along with perimeter of ceiling, screw fixed 
to brick wall / partition with the help of Nylon 
sleeves and screws at 610 mm centers. Then 
suspending G.I. intermediate channels of size 45 mm 
( 0.9 mm thick with 2 flanges of 15 mm each )  from 
the soffit at 1220 mm centers with ceiling angle of 
width 25 mm X 10 mm X 0.55 mm thick fixed to 
soffit with G.I. cleat and steel expansion fasteners. 
Ceiling section of 0.55 mm thick having knurled web 
of 51.5 mm and 2  flanges of 26 mm each with lips of 
10.5 mm are then fixed to the intermediate channel 
with the help of connecting clips and in direction 
perpendicular to the intermediate channel at 450 mm 
centers. All steel sections shall be marked with 
'Gypsteel' ( Registered trademark Hologram ) . 
 
Flush fitting 1200 mm long cross tees to be 
interlocked between main runners at 600 mm centers 
to form 1200 mm x 600 mm modules. Cut cross tees 
longer than 600 mm require independent support. 
600 mm x 600 mm modules to be formed by fitting 
600 mm long flush fitting cross tees centrally 
between the 1200 mm cross tees. Perimeter trim to be 
( Turlock or approved equivalent ) 15 mm exposed 
trim, with manufacturer specific sized wall angle of 
approved color, secured to walls at 450 mm 
maximum centers.12.5 mm tapered edge Gypboard 
(conforming to IS 2095-1982) is then screw fixed to 
ceiling section with 25 mm dry wall Philips screws at 
230 mm centers. Screw fixing is done mechanically 
with drilling machine with suitable attachment. 
Finally tapered edges of the Gyp boards are to be 


--- Page 27 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 27 
 
jointed and finished so as to have a flush look which 
includes 
filling 
and 
finishing 
with 
jointing 
compound, paper tape etc complete as per the 
recommended practices of India Gypsum. Rate to be 
included all kinds of profiles and cut outs required 
for light fixtures, Speakers, Smoke detector, trap 
doors and AC grill in the ceiling.  
  
  
False ceiling dual combination of Gypsum cove with 
600x600 mm Silhouette GI grid and mineral fibre 
tiles complete 
 
16 
Cove band 
Providing and Fixing Cove light / Indirect Lighting 
in False Ceiling in 12 mm thk Gypsum Board as 
shown in drwg. on 24 gauge G.I. frame work which 
includes Providing & fixing G I framing as per India 
Gypsum specifications. The Facia & upstand in 
approved shape shall be in perfect line & level. 
Boards to be joint & finished so as to have flush look 
including filling & finishing edges with jointing 
compound paper tape suitable for receiving paint. 
complete as directed by Architect. ceiling should be 
free from any undulation. 
 
17 
Viewing 
Glass 
Window  
Wood Panelling with 19mm ply finishing with 1mm 
laminate photo frame type with 10 mm toughened 
glass of Saint Gobain or equivalent complete  
 
18 
signages 
4"x14" metaalic board signages 
 
19 
Lustre 
painting 
Providing and applying three coats of Luster paint of 
desired shade, of Asian / Berger / ICI paints or 
equivalent on internal wall surfaces wherever 
required at all heights to give an even and uniform 
shade, applied over a coat of primer and putty 
"Altek" or "Wall care" or approved equivalent as per 
manufacturer specification fully to give a smooth and 
even surface  including thoroughly brushing  the 
surface free from water / mortar dropping and other 
foreign matter and sand papered smooth, complete 
per manufacturers specifications and as directed. 
 
20  
  
Paint work on wall and ceiling 2 coat wall putty 2 
coat primer and 2 coat washable paint with smooth 
finishing  
 
 21 
  
Existing Door frames paint and doors re-laminate 
work  
       8 
22 
  
Wallpaper  
150 sq ft 
23 
  
Biomatrix Door Access System  
9 
24 
  
Music system for reporting room (Sony or 
equivalent) 
1  
25 
  
Ergonomic furniture for the reporting room including 
but not limited to: 
  
high quality tables with necessary modifications for 
optimum use in reporting room(10 in number) 
mid back chairs(10 in number) 
Almirahs(6 in number) 
Lockers for doctors' use(kindly consult with the 
departmental team for any clarifications):20 in 


--- Page 28 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 28 
 
number 
26 
  
15 T of ductable air conditioning for the server room, 
reporting room and disaster recovery room(Brands: 
Bluestar/Carrier) 
  
27 
  
Speech magic/Dragon voice recognition system with 
hardware and licences 
15 pieces 
of 
hardware 
with 
provision 
for 15 
concurrent 
users and 
40 user 
voice 
profiles  
 
To upgrade lighting according to latest ACR guidelines for reporting room currently being used 
in the department. 
To furnish the current reporting room of the department so as to optimize workflow and 
reporting with maximal users: 
 
01 
Work 
station with 
pedestal 
Providing and making the Work stations table 
600mm deep in 19mm thk commercial plywood 
of approved make  with necessary verticals / 
supports as per the drawings and detail. The table 
shall finished from all sides with the 1 mm Thk. 
Laminate of approved make. The Table Top shall 
be provided with powder coated wire manager and 
complete the same all per the drawings and details 
and as directed. measurement will count from 
front height and length 
 
7 in number 
to be used in 
the existing 
reporting 
room of the 
department 
02 
Overhead 
storage 
Providing and making the Over Head Storage 
600mm deep in 19mm thk commercial plywood 
of approved make with necessary verticals / 
supports as per the drawings and detail. The table 
shall have finish from all sides with the 1 mm 
Thk. Laminate of approved make. The Table Top 
shall be provided with powder coated wire 
manager and complete the same all per the 
drawings and details and as directed. measurement 
will count from front height and length 
 
To be used in 
the room to 
be used as  
departmental 
library(area 
approximately 
100 sq feet) 
03 
 Racks 
for 
books 
 
 
 to be used for 
book storage 
as per 
discussion 
with the 
departmental 
committee 
 
 
2.      Electrical 
:  
  
  
  


--- Page 29 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 29 
 
SI. No. 
ITEM Description 
UNIT QUANTITY 
  
(Internal Electrification)  
  
  
1 
Point Wiring and Sub-mains  wiring 
  
  
1.1 
Wiring for light point/plug points in following groups with 
3x1.5 Sq. mm PVC insulated FR flexible copper conductor 
wire of 1100 volts grade drawn in 2 mm thick MS conduit on 
surface of the wall, in the wallar in ceiling false ceiling with 
continuous run. 
  
  
a 
Primary Light point controlled by one 6A SP switch 
no 
10 
b 
Same as item 1.1 above but secondary point i.e. points to be 
looped with primary point 
no 
5 
1.2 
Wiring for 5 pin 6 A light plugpoints with 2 x 1.5 sqmm PVC 
insulated FR flexible copper conductor wires of grade 1100 V 
grade drawn in 2mm thick MS conduit pipe recessed in wall/ 
ceiling or surfaced on wall / ceiling with continuous run of 1.5 
Sq.rnm PVC insulated FR flexible green colour copper 
conductor for earthing the third pin of socket outlet including 
metal box with modular type switch and socket complete as 
required. 
  
  
a 
(1 Socket + 1 switch)  
no 
30 
1.3 
Wiring for 6 pin, 6/16 A power plug outlets with 2C X 4.0 Sq. 
rnm PVC insulated FR flexible copper conductor wires of 
1100 Volts grade drawn in 2 rnm thick PVC conduit pipe 
recessed in wall/ceiling or surfaced on wall/ceiling/ false 
ceiling with continuous run of 2.5 Sq.rnm PVC insulated FR 
flexible green colour copper conductor for earthing the third 
pin of socket outlet including metal box with modular type 
switch and socket complete as required. 
  
  
a 
One outlets per circuit.  
no 
20 
1.4 
Wiring for 16A NEEMA type plug & socket. single phase 
outlets with 2 X 4.0 Sq. mm PVC insulated FR flexible copper 
conductor wires of 11 00 Volts grade drawn in 2mm thick 
PVC conduit pipe recessed in wall/ceiling or surfaced on 
wall/ceiling.with continuous run of 2.5 Sq.rnm PVC insulated 
FR flexible green colour copper conductor for earthing the 
third pin of socket outlet including metal box with modular 
type switch and socket complete as required. 
  
  
a 
One outlet per circuit.  
no 
4 
1.5 
Wiring for 25/32 A weather proof type plug & socket. single 
phase outlets with 2 X 6.0 Sq. mm PVC insulated FR flexible 
copper conductor wires of 11 00 Volts grade drawn in 2mm 
thick PVC conduit pipe recessed in wall/ceiling or surfaced on 
wall/ceiling. 
  
  
a 
One outlet per circuit. 
no 
10 
  
  
  
  
2 
DISTRIBUTION BOARDS 
  
  


--- Page 30 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 30 
 
2.1 
Supply, installation, testing and commissioning of wall 
mounted sub distribution boards of 16 SWG sheet steel 
cubical design, double door, dust and vermin proof suitable 
for operation on 415 volts, 50 Hz three phase A.C. supply 
system, IP-42 protection 
  
  
2.1.1 
Lighting Distribution Board:  
  
  
  
6Way TPN-DB with 1 No 63A TPN MCB for incomer and 24 
No SP MCB  
No 
4 
  
  
  
  
  
MAIN DISTRIBUTION PANEL AS per the Drawing  
  
  
  
Incomer  
  
  
  
2 No 200A TPN Change Over 3way & VAF  
  
  
  
Out Going  
  
  
  
200A Alu Busbar  
  
  
  
4 N 63A TPN MCB  
  
  
  
10 No 32A DP MCB  
  
  
  
Complete 1 Set  
SET 
1 
3 
Fittings and fixtures 
  
  
3.1 
Installation testing and commissioning of following fixtures 
complete 
with 
special 
electronic 
low 
loss 
ballast 
lamps/LEDs/tube/condenser/starters/louvers/reflectors/covers 
etc & making connections from light point outlet to the fixture 
with suitable size 
  
  
a 
34W 600x600 LED Light Make (Philips/ Havels/Wipro) 
No 
15 
b 
15W Led Light Make (Philips/ Havels/Wipro) 
No 
4 
c 
600x600 36W led lighting  
No 
12 
  
Dimmer controlled 10W led spot light  
No 
10 
4 
Computer system wiring 
  
  
4.1 
Supply and drawing of CAT 6e Lan cable AMP in the floor 
trunking/conduit including connections etc. complete as 
required compatible  with ferruls for numbering  
RM 
305 
  
25mm MS conduit including wall chipping laying and fixing  
RM 
100 
4.2 
Supply and fixing of the I/O RJ 11 of AMP/ AVIAVA make 
on the modular face plate including termination of the CAT6e 
cable including supply of the face plate with additional space 
for voice RJ6  
  
  
a 
One  data per point 
no 
20 
b 
One voice point 
no 
10 
5 
Earthing Protection 
  
  
5.1 
Chemical Earthing with copper electrode 80x300mm lockable 
heavy duty cover plate suitable for fire Tender, watering. 
  
  
a 
for UPS & Panel 
no 
2 
5.2 
Earthing Strips and wires 
  
  
5.2.3 
Supplying and installation of 35mm 1C copper wire  
RM 
100 
6 
Telephone wiring 
  
  
6.1 
Supplying and drawing PVC / Polythene insulated and PVC 
sheathed unarmoured telephone cable with 0.5 mm dia. 
Tinned/ annealed copper conductor taped & confirming to 
ITD specification S/WT-129C of approved make in existing 
surface or recessed conduit/casing. 
  
  


--- Page 31 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 31 
 
a 
5 pair 
RM 
100 
7 
CABLES 
  
  
7.1 
Providing and laying in open with clamps, or in existing 
trenches or in existing cable trays armoured aluminium/Alu 
conductor FRLS XLPE armoured of following sizes. The job 
involves cable end termination on both ends with compression 
type brass glands and crimping type thimbles of appropriate 
sizes as required all complete. (for single run only) 
  
  
b 
3.5 core 95 sqmm  
RM 
100 
  
6 Pair armoured Fiber Optics cable  
RM 
100 
  
fibre patch cord  
No 
12 
  
FSP  
No 
2 
  
Fibre laying and jointing charges  
No 
1 
9 
Fire Separation System Gas Based for Data Center 
Qty. 
1 
10 
Very Early Smoke Detection Apparatus (VESDA) for 
Data Center room 
Qty. 
1 
11 
Water Leak Detection Apparatus for Data Center room 
Qty. 
1 
  
  
  
  
3.  
    Access 
Control 
system for 
Rodents 
  
  
  
Sl.No 
Description 
Qty 
Unit 
1 
ACCESS CONTROL SYSTEM  
  
  
1.1 
Providing and fixing of the PVC insulated, shielded and 
sheathed 4 core 24 AVG stranded copper conductor control 
cabling for access control system in 25 mm PVC conduits 
30 
rm 
1.2 
Supply, installation, testing, commissioning, training of 
software, programming etc of PROXIMITY Based Multi 
Door Access Control System ( SO 9001, CE & FC approved). 
  
  
1.2.1 
Microprocessor Based Fully Software Controlled 2 Door 
Controller with LCD Display & Key-Pad + Power Supply 
built in Battery Back-up. 
1 
no 
1.2.2 
Proximity Reader.(RFID) 
2 
no 
1.2.3 
Prox Card with ID Sticker & Necklanyard. 
10 
no 
1.2.4 
Electromagnetic Lock. 
2 
no 
1.2.5 
Exit Switch. 
2 
no 
1.2.6 
Access Control & Time Attendance Software + Signal 
Converter. 
1 
no 
2 
RODENT CONTROL SYSTEM  
  
  
2.1 
VHFO Master Console 
1 
no 
2.2 
Transducers 
2 
no 
2.3 
Stand Bracket 
2 
no 
2.4 
Junction box for Transducers 
2 
no 
2.5 
Connecting Cables 
1 
Lot 
 
 


--- Page 32 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS 
Admn/Tender/27/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 32 
 
Ceiling mounted LCD 
projector for use during 
interdepartmental 
discussions and UG/PG 
teaching 
Specifications 
 
The item should meet the requirement for its optimum use for 
academic teaching. Model may be finalised after discussion with 
Institute‟s IT team and department of Radiology. 
HD resolution 
Full 
White and colour light output 
4000 lumens or more 
Contrast ratio 
2000:1  
Projection size 
Projection should be possible on a 10 feet(L) x 6 feet(W) screen 
4K enhancement technology is 
a must 
 
Ease of set up with motorised 
lens adjustment 
 
 
      Motorized Projection Screen with Remote 
The item should meet the requirement for its optimum use for academic teaching. Model 
may be finalised after discussion with Institute‟s IT team and department of Radiology. 
White matte fabric with anti UV coating 
Back Side Black Coated and Four Side Black Masking Border for Absorbing Extra Light falling on the 
screen. 
Actual Viewing Are 65" Height & 116" Width with 133" Diagonal In 16:09 Aspect Ratio 
Five years Warranty 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


