--- Page 10 ---
 Tender for Portable Colour Doppler Ultrasound Machine with 2D ECHO              Admn/Tender/118/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Portable 
Colour 
Doppler 
Ultrasound 
Machine with 
2D ECHO 
1. Fully digital, compact, portable colour Doppler ultrasound 
machine with pin less connector, weight less than 5 kg.  
2. Unit should be able to give very high image quality with advance 
technologies like compound imaging for better cardiac contrast 
resolution, tissue differentiation and edge detection, equivalent to 
high end cart based systems.  
3. System should be able to support speckle reduction imaging for 
better tissue differentiation and edge enhancement. 
4. The system shall have the ability to enhance tissue margins and 
improve contrast resolution by reducing artifacts and improving 
visualization of texture patterns & needle tip within the image, 
please specify the technology.  
5. Imaging modes of Real time 2D, Colour Doppler, Pulsed wave 
Doppler, Continuous wave Doppler, Power Doppler must be 
available on all cardiac transducers. 
6. System must have fast start up to scanning in less than 30 seconds 
from off condition, for use in critical and emergency situations.  
7. System should support transducer technologies like phased array, 
convex, linear, TEE etc.  
8. Cine memory on all modes.  
9. The system shall process a dynamic range that is at least 165db. 
The system must display at a maximum depth of 35 cm. 
10. The system must have a dedicated cardiac calculation packages 
with PISA, TDI calculation packages, vascular calculations 
package. 
11. The unit must be compact, portable and lightweight, weighing less 
than 5 kg.  
12. Unit must be sturdy, resistant to breakage & damage on fall/ hit 
against the wall or hard surface for out of the hospital use.  
13. Flat LCD/ TFT monitor of at least 10 inches or more with flicker 
free image. 
14. Alphanumeric soft keys keyboard with easy access scans controls, 
facility to sanitize the system keyboard to avoid cross 
contamination.  
15. The system must have the ability to function by AC/DC or battery 
power with the same degree of functionality, the battery life (run 
time) should be at least 2 (Two) hours, this needs to be 
demonstrated.   
16. The system must have archive capability for storage and retrieval 
of images and clips data. 
17. Data Transfer facility should be available as standard, to transfer 
images etc. easily onto another system/computer etc. 
18. System 
should 
possess 
software 
for 
Enhanced 
Needle 
Visualization to track the needle clearly at steep angles during the 
procedures while maintaining striking image quality of the target 
structures and the surrounding anatomy with simple On/Off 
functionality. This Facility should be available on both High 
frequency Linear and Curvilinear probes for superficial as well as 
deeper blocks. 
19. Unit must be sturdy, resistant to breakage & damage on fall on 
hard surface.  
20. The system should support all the DICOM functionality, Storage, 
Print, and Work List, also ready to connect to PACS. 
01 


--- Page 11 ---
 Tender for Portable Colour Doppler Ultrasound Machine with 2D ECHO              Admn/Tender/118/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21. The manufacturer shall provide a loaner system in case of failure 
of system.   
22. The equipment should be mountable on trolley & locking 
mechanism should be inbuilt into the trolley for safety & security 
of the system. 
23. The system and transducers should be USFDA & European CE 
certified. 
 
Transducers to be supplied as standard   
1. 12-6 MHz broadband linear array with less than 30 mm 
size for Musculoskeletal, vascular, nerve, superficial 
,venous, ophthalmic 
2. 8-3 MHz  broadband phased array with less than 12 mm 
size  cardiology, abdominal, neonatal head application 
3. 8-5 MHz broadband curved array with less than 13 mm 
size for Abdominal, neonatal, nerve, vascular. 
4. 5-1 MHZ broad band phased array transducer with 18-22 
mm size  for cardiac applications 
5. Mobile Cart with transducer holder & space for printer. 


