--- Page 19 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ ENT/209 /2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 19 
 
ENT WORK STATION SPECIFICATIONS 
1. Durable, steel casing, non-rusting, long lasting worktop 
2. Minimum 02  large pull-out trays with dividers located in compartment under hinged cover 
3. At least 1 drawer with dividers. 
4. Containers for used instruments and waste 
5. Min. 4 power sockets 230V 
6. Right-handed use. Either mobile on castors or fitted as a fixture. 
7. Operates on 230V (± 10%) – 50/60 Hz. 
8. Writing drawer/dressing plate/X-ray viewer on the same horizontal platform with illumination. X ray 
viewer as different vertical attachment is not preferable. 
9. Plateau for additional equipment like monitor, separate endoscopy recording system or such devices. 
10. Extension fitted with halogen head mirror lamp with adjustable intensity. 
11. Should be fitted with glove, cotton and tissue/ paper dispenser drawer. 
12. Separate endoscopy recording system (from the same manufacturer). 
a) This recording system should be separate from the imaging and recording system integrated with 
the microscope. 
b) For recording purposes for digital and video images with all essential software and essential back 
up and accessories.  
c) High performance using at least dual core processor or better. At least 500 GB of memory. 
Capable of recording at least 15 hours of video or at least 10,000 images.  
d) At least 2 LAN ports.  
e) Capable of integration with HIS and PACS via slandered interfaces.  
f) The system should be compatible for attachment to the endoscope. Should be able to enter 
patient's details and to record and store for images. 
g) Should have ability to generate dvi and/or mpeg4 videos. Ability to generate jpeg and tiff images 
of at least 600 dpi. Capable of taking at least 180 images per second. 
h) At least 15 inch Full HD Monitor with foldable attachment on main unit of recording system. 40-
45o tillable backwards. Viewing angle 170o - 180° horizontal and vertical. 
i) Still photo/video mode is selected by foot pedal or by shutter release on the touchscreen. The 
findings can be tagged directly on the touchscreen using finger touch. 
j) Touch screen should also be operable with gloves and also by mouse & keyboard. Result finding 
tagging by touching the image. Mouse and keyboard wireless attachment. 
k) Capable of comparing at least 2- 4 stills, single image view and zoom. 
l) Capable of connecting two monitors with automatic switching between them. 


--- Page 20 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ ENT/209 /2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 20 
 
m) Should have incorporated global shutter technology so that it can be used for stroboscopy. 
n) Facility for photo creation from recorded videos. 
o) C-MOS technology with high sensitivity to light. 
p) Data can be sent to printer via LAN and be saved directly to USB stick or internal memory. 
q) A laser coloured multifunction (copy, scan and print) printer for printing reports be provided with 
the device. It is permissible for that a printer be of different manufacturer but should be 
European CE or US FDA approved. 
r) Should be compatible with Microsoft windows XP, 7, and/or the latest versions. 
s) Footswitch for freezing function. 
t) It should have custom designed special case for keeping the unit. 
13. Cautery power output with banana sockets in front panel. Integrated with the main unit. 50 Watt high 
frequency electrosurgical unit, Monopolar accessories & set of cautery probes should be supplied. 
14.  Noiseless preferably separate Suction system. 
a) Supplied with suction hand piece and tubing. Maintenance-free. 
b) Capacity: 55 ltr/min to 70 ltr/min, vacuum: -80 to -98kpa, with secretion collection of 1ltr/1.5ltr 
with automatic secretion canister evacuator system. 
c) Suction should have automatic start up feature while removing suction cannula adaptor from the 
support.  
d) Should have facility of hose rising the suction tube to avoid any growth of Bactria/fungus in the 
suction tubing.  
e) Suction Cannulas 1.0 to 4.0 mm (Preferably 4 sizes). 
15. Compressed air system complete with spray hand piece (autoclavable) with tubing and 3 spray bottles.  
a) Should preferably have compressed air system have a tank for compressed air so that compressor is 
not required repeatedly. 
b) Powder and liquid atomizers with holder for atomizers (nozzles removable) 
c) Adjustable pressure by means of regulator valve 
d) Automatically activated via sensor when hand piece is removed from its holder 
e) Manometer in front panel 
f) Low maintenance 
g) Max. pressure: 0.1 to 4 bar 
h) Politzer olive universal sizes, fits directly into compressor hand piece 
i) Suction tube cleaner with exchangeable reusable stainless steel adapter. 
16. Telescopes  
a) 0° & 30° - 2.7 mm - 110 -140 mm working length 
b) 0° & 30° - 4 mm -  175 -180 mm working length 


--- Page 21 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ ENT/209 /2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 21 
 
c) 70° with handle (angle of view, 4 mm diameter,  175 -180 mm working length) 
d) Oto-endoscope 0° & 30° (Length 5-6cm approx, diameter 2.7mm).  
e) 90oTele laryngo-pharyngoscope, magnifier scope (4X), fibre optic light transmission, air insufflation 
channel, adjustable focus. 
Suitable fibroptic chords or light carriers for endoscopes. Disinfection and warming quivers for endoscopes 
preferably placed in extension arm (preferably for 5 endoscopes). Preheating quivers disinfection quivers, 
disinfection quivers, disinfection time control, removable and disinfectable quivers for flexible scopes. Both 
USFDA and European CE approved and inclusion subject to demonstration if asked for by experts. 
17. Warm water irrigation system  
a) With for ear syringing and caloric testing.  
b) Electronic temperature control of water temperature.  
c) Autoclavable handles with snap closure system and fine regulation valve.  
d) Should preferably have a separate stainless steel tank.   
e) Should have sinus drainage tube as well as front cannulas and a water supply hose and 
autoclavable water filter with cartridge.  
f) Disposable filters with short life are not permissible. 
18. Ear rinse cup with ear rinsing funnel with active motor system & automatic liquid bottle drainage system 
preferably on swivel arm. Flow adjustable in ml per minute. 
19. Pre-heater for up to 60 mirrors of different sizes mounted on pull-out tray. Removable block for 
sterilization. Mirror re-warmer with the single handed heating function. 
20. Microscope 
a) With 3-5 step magnification changers 
b) Mounted on ENT unit 
c) Switched on/off from control panel with dimmer or Switched automatic on/ off, on the movement 
of the microscope Column 
d) 10X Object F = 200-300 mm with fine focusing 
e) Binocular vision 
f) 3 to 5 step magnification changer 
g) Inbuilt LED light source in the camera head. 
h) SD Camera with microscope with a facility to take images, video with arching software. 
i) Supplied with a Laptop (i5 processor, 5 GB RAM, 64 BIT operating system, ≥3.3 GHz, at least 2 years 
onsite warranty covering physical damage with 3 years extended warranty of the manufacturer). It is 


--- Page 22 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ ENT/209 /2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 22 
 
permissible for that a laptop be of different manufacturer but should be European CE or US FDA 
approved. 
j) Digital Video Camera with PAL/NTSC video system, CCD sensor 1/3” 
k) Automatic white balance with control on base unit and also on camera. Integrated Zoom lens. 
Instrument coupling for rigid endoscopes. Enlarged view. 
l) Preset function keys on camera for control of functions and focus. 
m) Switchable 230/240 VAC 
n) C-mount adaptor 28mm, waterproof 
o) Long camera cable with minimum length 300cm. 
p) 16” TFT monitor, LCD flat screen. Not same as in point number 12. 
q) Swivel arm mounted on microscope column for video monitor. 
r) Aseptic splash protection for the objective lens. 
s) Sterelizable hand grip covers and caps. 
21. Both USFDA and European CE approved and inclusion subject to demonstration if asked for by experts. 
22. Integrated fibre optic light source for telescopes with 4 fibre optic cable. Cold light source (Preferably LED) 
Intensity adjustable from 50- 150W. Heat absorbance filter and ventilation system.  Four outlets for light 
cable. It will be preferable if light source is placed near the endoscopic quivers. 
23. Fibroptic head light.  
a) Adjustable & comfortable head band vertical and side to side adjustable. Preferably automatic 
activation of head light.  
b) Approximately 300 cm fibroptic chord. 
c) Focal length 20-30 cm.  
d) Adjustable light spot diameter.  
e) Spare lamp for head light.  
f) Compatible with light source housed in main unit.  
24. Doctor's Stool with adjustable backrest and height 
a) Pneumatic cylinder with height adjustable 
b) Min. seat height: 46 cm to 55cm 
c) Max. seat height: 50cm to 75cm 
d) 360° rotatable 
e) Seat Ø 30 cm to 40cm 
f) Adjustable backrest (height and depth) 
g) Cross-type base  
h) Safety castors 


--- Page 23 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ ENT/209 /2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 23 
 
 
25. Patient Examination  &  Treatment Chair 
a) Motorized and ergonomically designed facilitating the postures of both Doctor and   patient. 
b) Seat should have motorized lifting device. Lifting range 30 cm. Height 50 to 82 cm. 
c) Integrated foot switch for easy adjustment of height. 
d) Should have complete rotation 360 degree with locking device.  
e) Armrest  should be comfortably padded and can be folded back for enabling easy sitting of 
overweight 
f) Backrest should recline to horizontal position and -10O to Trendelenberg position and adjustable 
head rest. Arm rest and leg rest should simultaneously fallow the chair’s sequence of movement 
until it reaches the complete horizontal position. Electric back rest adjustment.  
g) Head rest should have adjustable height. 
h) Electric rotation 180O. 
i) Should confirm US FDA and European standards. 
j) Power 220-240 Volts/50 Hz. 
26. Separate Instrument Cabinet Unit  
a) Should have stainless steel top with large instrument surface with aluminium trays and set of 
stainless steel dividers.  
b) Dust cover, integrated waste container with foot pedal. 
c) Removable drawer for used instrument along with compartment for bottles. 
d) It should have drawers for storage and instrument drawers with aluminium, trays and set of 
stainless steel dividers. 
e) The unit should be mobile on castors. 
27. Head mirror rest with automatic on/off switch. 
28. Appropriate UPS with 15 minutes’ backup for the whole equipment. 
29. Other terms and conditions 
a) Warranty 5 years from the date of installation. 
b) CMC for 5 years. It should cover all components of unit (i.e. microscope, cold light source, suction 
system, head lamp suspension, fibre-optic head light, examination chair, doctor’s chair, endoscopy 
centre including endoscopes, camera and monitor etc.) 
c) An undertaking to be provided by the principal/manufacturer of the system for availability of spares 
for 10 years from the date of installation. 
d) Technical bid should mention complete specifications of the unit. A pen/pencil diagram of the unit is 
to be provided with the technical bid which should show all specifications labelled as numbers of the 


