--- Page 35 ---
Tender No-AIIMS-NAG/Radiology/Ultrasound/GTE/2023-24/21                                           Dated- 30/03/2024 
Page 35 of 57 
 
SECTION – VII 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR HIGH END COLOR DOPPLER ULTRASOUND SYSTEM 
 
Sr.no.  HIGH END COLOR DOPPLER ULTRASOUND SYSTEM  
1 
The equipment must be robust state of art, fully digital high end latest Color Doppler Ultrasound 
System must be capable of performing imaging applications in abdominal, obs/gynae, Fetal Heart, 
musculoskeletal, small parts, Urology, Breast, Pediatric etc. 
It should be capable of operating in B-Mode, M-Mode, Color Doppler, Color Flow and Power 
Doppler Modes, Contrast microbubble ultrasound & 3D / 4D Volume Scanning, Real time 2D 
Shearwave and strain elastography & Fusion capabilities. 
2 
It Should support transducers with single crystal/Matrix/ Pure wave/Equivalent technology. 
Further include full array of measurements and calculation packages. The specific minimum 
requirements for this equipment are as follows 
3 
System should have the latest technology to automatically focus the entire field of view on all 
the probes. 
4 
The console should be height & rotation option adjustable. 
5 
The system monitor size should not be less than 23” and should have LED/OLED and 
FHD/QHD/ LT HD resolution flat panel monitor. 
6 
The monitor shall be mounted on an articulating arm that moves side-to-side, forward, and 
backward. 
7 
The system should have colour touch panel of minimum 13 inch or more with Fully customizable as per 
multiple end user requirements for ease of use. 
8 
The system shall have minimum Four active universal probe Ports & at least 1 parking port to 
be provided. 
9 
System shall have image management features that store images by patient and include the 
ability to review images from different exam dates. 
10 
System shall support the ability to store digital data in that allows optimizing imaging 
parameters such as B Gain, TGC, Color Gain, Dynamic Range, Speckle Reduction levels, 
Doppler Gain, Doppler Base Line on old Images & old loops recalled from the image archive. 
11 
System shall allow for live image and archive images side-by-side or quad display on a single 
monitor. This display shall allow any type of image – B-Mode, Color, or power Doppler on 
either side. 
12 
Similarly, System should have upgradability option for Spatio Temporal Image Correlation tool (STIC) for Fetal
Echo. 
System should have option for structured reporting of Breast & Thyroid Lesions using BIRADS & 
TIRADS scoring. 
 
13 
System should have Shear-wave Elastography with Convex, Linear and endocavitory Probe. System 
should have Shear-wave/ strain Elastography with endocavitory Probe. System should have real time 
color coded 2D Shear-wave in Abdomen, Breast, application. It should have real time color coded shear-
wave/ strain elastography for prostate application. System should have Breast, Thyroid, Cervical and 
prostate elastography with quantification. System should be capable of shear-wave liver fat 
quantification/estimation for measuring & analyzing Hepato-Renal Index, with ratio of interquartile 
range and median displayed on the screen along with attenuation value simultaneously, the values being 
interpreted in m/s and Kpa. 
14 
Contrast Ultrasound Capability (CEUS) with Time Intensity Curve Graphs. 
15 
System should have the capability to compare previous patient images during live scan 
16 
System should have the capability of micro vessel flow imaging to visualize circulation micro 
vessels without using the contrast.  
17 
System should have the capability to measure the area of lesions/Cyst automatically 
18 
Fusion and Navigation should be available for Advanced Intervention applications like Liver ablation 
and Prostate Biopsy. 
Fusion Imaging should be capable of allowing Patient Body Motion Tracker and Auto Registration. 
Fusion Imaging should be available on Convex, Linear and Endo cavitary probes with reference images 


--- Page 36 ---
Tender No-AIIMS-NAG/Radiology/Ultrasound/GTE/2023-24/21                                           Dated- 30/03/2024 
Page 36 of 57 
 
of CT, MRI & PET. 
 
19 
System should be compatible or upgradable with Biplane Transrectal Transducers (Convex + Convex 
and Convex +Linear) for Advanced Prostate Imaging. (May be optional) 
20 
System should have an AI feature in doppler studies which automatically places the color box 
by understanding the location and direction of the vessels. 
21 
The system shall allow for Post-Storage image manipulation to provide maximum image 
flexibility, review and productivity. It shall include the ability to change all following on 
recalled old Stored Images/Loops: 
a) Overall B-Mode gain, dynamic range and gray scale maps 
b) Overall Doppler gain, base line shift, sweep speed and inverted spectral waveform 
c) Anatomical M-Mode 
22 
The system shall provide a display zoom function on frozen images. 
23 
The system should have minimum 4,000,000 (Four Million) digital system processing 
channels. (Please attach a letter from manufacturer clearly stating the digital processed channels of the 
offered system. ) 
24 
The system shall possess the ability to control speckle through the use of a speckle reduction 
algorithm that enhances borders, reduces speckle artifact and improves detail and contract 
resolution in gray scale with compatibility in Color mode, 3D and side-by-side display. This 
feature shall have operator selectable settings and be capable of displaying in side-by-side 
mode with non-speckle reduced image. 
25 
The system shall provide scan depths from a minimum of 2 cm to a maximum of at least 35 
cm. 
26 
System should have frame rate not less than 1900f/s. 
27 
System should have 256 gray shades 
28 
B-Mode / M-mode Imaging 
29 
The system shall provide the capability for coded tissue harmonic imaging on all offered 
transducers. 
30 
Color flow/Bi -Directional Power Doppler/Pulse Wave Doppler  
31 
Measurements and Calculations 
32 
Measurements should be possible on frozen images as well as on images recalled from the 
image archive. 
33 
The system shall provide a comprehensive set of obstetrical and gynecologic calculations and 
vascular calculations with summary reports. 
 
Image Archive and Networking 
34 
The device should store images onto an integrated DVD-R Multidrive and a USB port storage 
device. 
35 
The system shall include at least 1TB HDD with 800GB space to store images. With 1TB 
external storage hard disk. 
36 
The device should store images in DICOM, JPG, WMV and AVI or equivalent formats for 
maximum flexibility. 
37 
DICOM Connectivity will be standard. Images should be transferable to PACS/external 
devices. 
38 
Transducers 
A 
System should be able to handle frequencies from 1-18MHz 
B 
1 to 7 MHz +/-1 MHz Frequency Single Crystal/Equivalent technology convex probe for 
Abdomen imaging with Shear-wave Elastography. 
C 
5-9 MHz Broad band – Single Crystal/Equivalent technology Linear probe for Abdomen, 
Vascular, Small Parts with Shear-wave Elastography. 
D 
5-9 mHZ broad band –TV/TR probe for Gynec studies with Shearwave and Strain 
Elastography. 
E 
4-9 Mhz Volume TV/TR Probe 
F 
3-10 MHz Single Crystal/Equivalent technology Micro Convex probe for pediatric 


--- Page 37 ---
Tender No-AIIMS-NAG/Radiology/Ultrasound/GTE/2023-24/21                                           Dated- 30/03/2024 
Page 37 of 57 
 
applications. 
G 
Single Crystal/Equivalent technology 2-6 mHZ volume convex probe for 4D/OBS application 
H 
8-18 MHz Hockey Stick musculo-skeletal probe 
I 
System should be able to use with TEE probe 
J 
The softwares supplied should be available and compatible with all probes for a period of 10 
years. 
K 
The system should be USFDA/ European CE/ISO/BIS certified. 
39 
System should be supplied with the following accessories:  
1. Biopsy guide compatible with TV/TR Probe (two quantities). 
2. UPS with 30 min or more back up time should be provided for USG equipment.  
3. Signage as per the PC-PNDT guidelines and approved by the state PCPNDT authority.  
4. Appropriate probe cleansing solution / alcohol free wet vipes adequate for one year (50 
packets).  
5. Customised suitcases for keeping probes for storage.  
6. Heavy duty covers for cables of probes to safeguard against rodent damage.  
Kindly note: The vendor will have to ensure that the ultrasound scanner has GPS and 
tracker enabled as per PC-PNDT requirements. The same should also be maintained till 
the total warranty period and additional CMC period from date of installation. 
7. The machine maintenance must be done by parent company only through its qualified 
employee only and not through authorized dealer/distributors/franchisee/third party. 
40 
The system should be supplied with warranty of 5 year and CMC of 5 years after the warranty.  
41 
The system should be supplied with following standard accessories : 
1. One desktop of latest configuration with 21.5” or more screen size,16 GB RAM with 1 
TB SSD (Windows 10) with Sono Care / Similar imaging Software. 
2. One laser color printer with scanner which will be compatible with printing colored 
ultrasound images. 
3. Revolving, ergonomic, smoothly rolling, height adjustable high quality foam executive 
chairs (2 nos.) 
 
      Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description as 
per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item Description 
offered by Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


