--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/18/3065/OT/A 
 
Page 18 of 23 
 
Technical Specification 
Advanced Full Body Interactive Birthing Simulator  
 
 
Name of item Advanced Full-Body Interactive Birthing Simulator Complete Peripheral Kit 
(With Monitor) 
Should be supplied complete with:- 
 Wireless maternal mannequin - 01 no. 
 Birthing fetus - 01 no. 
 Fetus for Leopold's maneuvers - 01 no. 
 Abdomen for labor - 01 no. 
 Abdomen for Post Labor - 01 no. 
 Static cervices for vaginal examination - 01 set 
 Instructor wireless laptop - 01 no. 
 Simulated CTG Monitor - 01 no. 
 Uteri modules-4 in number 
 Vital control unit 
 Compressor blood pressure cuff 
 Set of consumables 
 Operating software 
 Directions for use and a carry case 
SPECIFICATION FOR MATERNAL FETAL SIMULATOR 
 
Maternal-Fetal Simulator complete with anatomically realistic mother and fetus for 
comprehensive training in prenatal care, labor and delivery, and postpartum care. 
 
The Maternal Fetal Simulator should be wireless, high fidelity simulator with an 
automated delivery mechanism and maternal aesthetics like a real patient. 
 
Should have integrated' maternal-fetal physiological and pharmacological modeling. 
 
All maneuvers & interventions should result in appropriate patient response 
automatically based on underlying physiology of patient without any input from the 
instructor 
 
Birthing simulator should include a birthing fetus and a second fetus especially 
designed for Leopold's maneuvers without connection ports on the head or buttocks. 
 
Should be fully wireless with on-board fluids, pneumatics, and electrical systems 
 
Should include software licenses to support scenario writing and editing on any 
computer 
Simulation should have following features 
 
Should have realistic birth canal with vulva/perineum supporting accurate fetal 
descent and rotation 
 
Should provide multiple birthing positions: lithotomy, sitting, and all-fours 
 
Should allow vaginal examinations for evaluation of the cervix, fetal station, and 
position 
 
Should have static cervices representing various stages of dilation (closed to 
10cm); effacement from 0-100% 
 
Should have palpable uterine contractions which can be detected by palpating the 
fundus 
 
Should have facility to allow instructors to control the rate and duration of 
contractions 
 
Birthing fetus should not have any connection port at the head or buttocks for 
realistic presentation during both vertex and breech deliveries 


--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/18/3065/OT/A 
 
Page 19 of 23 
 
 Should have -a customized fetus for Leopold's Maneuvers with hard head and 
soft buttocks 
 McRoberts Maneuver should be possible 
 Should support and detect suprapubic pressure with palpable symphysis pubis 
 Should be able to demonstrate Vertex and breech delivery 
 
Should allow forceps application 
 Should allow vacuum extraction without fetal cap 
 Should have Fetal heart sounds — 4 locations based on fetal presentation 
 Should have articulated fetal body neck (with lateral neck movement), shoulders, 
elbows, hips, and knees 
 Should have clinically accurate fetal size with tactile realism, Fetus with 
palpable, fontanel and sagittal suture 
 Should allow fetal airway suctioning 
 Fetus should have audible cry upon delivery 
 Predicted 1-minute and 5-minute APGAR scores based on integrated maternal-
fetal physiology 
 Should simulate postpartum hemorrhaging 
 Should allow for assessment of uterine atony (contracted vs. boggy Uterus) 
 Should have facility for bimanual compression and uterine massage detection 
 Should exhibit 
a) Uterine blood released upon massage 
b) Uterine massage should automatically decrease rate of blood flow 
c) Uterine massage compression effect 
 
Should support placing, an intrauterine balloon 
 
Umbilical cord can be cut and clamped 
 
Episiotomy should be possible 
 
Should have intact/fragmented placenta with realistic color, texture and 
flexibility, placenta can be delivered with gentle traction 
 
Should have epidural port with infusion and aspiration 
 
Should support C-section team training 
Mannequin should be able to demonstrate following clinical features:- 
a. Respiratory 
 Manikin should have realistic upper airway with airway management 
 
Should have advanced lungs with mechanical ventilation support 
 
Should support endotracheal tubes, nasal-pharyngeal and oropharyngeal airways 
 
Should display spontaneous breathing 
 
Should have bag-valve-mask 
 
Should exhibit lung sounds: anterior and posterior 
 
Should have realistic chest excursion & exhalation 
 
Should allow positive pressure ventilation  
 
b. Circulatory System 
 
Should support real 4-lead ECG that can be connected to simulator 
 Should display 12-lead ECG simulated in software 
 
Should have bilateral pulses: carotid, radial, and dorsalis pedis; with controllable 
pulse strength 
 
c. Cardiovascular 


--- Page 20 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/OBGY/18/3065/OT/A 
 
Page 20 of 23 
 
 Should allow chest compressions resulting in appropriate physiological changes. 
 Should have advanced CPR analysis that should measure hand placement 
and compression depth, rate, and release 
 Should support electrical therapy (defibrillation) 
 Should allow bilateral NIBP measurement 
 Should have realistic Heart sounds linked to the physiology of the patient. 
d. Nervous System 
 Should simulate seizures with rhythmic movement of arms, rapid blinking, and 
jaw movement 
 Should have reactive pupils 
 Should have blinking 
 Should have live and pre-recorded speech and should also have ability to 
import customized vocal sounds into system software , 
e. Fluids 
 
 Should have inbuilt postpartum bleeding tank 
 Should have bilateral IV arms with realistic flashback 
 Should have urinary catheterization 
Patient Profiles & Scenarios:- 
 Should be supplied with preprogrammed patient profiles with system software to 
write patient profiles as per training needs 
 Should be supplied with pre programmed clinical scenarios (at least 10 nos.) with 
system software to modify existing scenario & write new scenarios as per training 
needs 
 Pre programmed clinical scenarios should include : 
a) A normal delivery 
b) An instrumental vaginal delivery 
c) Fetal tachycardia due to maternal pyrexia 
d) Breech delivery 
e) Fetal central nervous system depression by narcotics given to the mother 
f) Shoulder dystocia 
g) Major post-partum hemorrhage due to uterine atony 
h) Maternal cardio-respiratory arrest 
i) Eclampsia 
j) Umbilical cord prolapsed 
Note- Should be quoted with 5 yrs warranty and 5 yrs CMC 
If it's a proprietary item, the certificate of same should be enclosed along with the 
tender documents. 
 
 


