--- Page 7 ---
AIIMS/MG/Tender/2022-23/ Clinical Specular Microscope 
Page 4 of 31 
 
THE SCOPE OF WORK / SCHEDULE OF REQUIREMENT 
1. Bids are invited from Manufacturer’s/Authorized Distributors/ Authorized Dealers/ Supplier 
companies, to supply high-quality Equipment/ Instruments as per the Technical Specification 
and Standard mentioned in the Schedule of requirement. 
2. Description of Equipment along with accessories for given in below. Tenderer should 
arrange demo of item to faculty/officers (Technical Specification Committee) for display/ 
testing of the equipment if necessary.   
3. Companies well known in the line of manufacturing/Authorized Distributor/Dealer of the 
Equipment/Instruments/ should only quote as per our requirement and the supply /Delivery 
time is 4 weeks (i.e., 30 Days) only after the issue of Purchase Order. 
4. The required in-situ works like minor Electrical/Plumbing/Civil/any other Engineering 
Works, any accessories and consumables during the warranty period, if any required for 
Equipment/Instrument installation for making it operational at client site, will carried out and 
borne by the Successful L-1 Agency, and for this purpose no extra payment, what so ever 
will not paid by AIIMS Mangalagiri to any Agency. Accordingly, the vendor may bid. 
 
SCHEDULE OF REQUIREMENT/ TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS OF CLINICAL SPECULAR MICROSCOPE 
 
1) It should be used for in vivo, non-contact, endothelial cell count 
  
2) It should be fast, able to capture and analyse the parameters within 2 sec  
 
3) It should have both automatic and manual mode 
 
4) The size of the photocapure should be at least 0.20 x 0.50 mm 
 
5) It should be able to perform in the corneal with the corneal thickness range of 300-700 
micrometer 
 
6) It should able to capture the endothelial cell datas from both centre as well as periphery of the 
cornea  
 
7) It should able to calculate approximately 300 cells with standard deviation (SD), Coefficient 
of variation, cell size etc  
 
8) There should be comparison feature between the two examinations  
 
9) It should be provided with high speed computer system with 1 TB storage system for better 
data management. 
 
10) It should be provided with colour printer. 
S. No. 
Item Description 
Req. Qty. 
1 
Clinical Specular Microscope  
1 No’s 


--- Page 8 ---
AIIMS/MG/Tender/2022-23/ Clinical Specular Microscope 
Page 5 of 31 
 
 
11) Machine should be provided with compatible combined motorized table and chair unit .  
 
12) It should be provided with motorized chair for examiner. 
 
13) It should be provided with UPS  
 
14) OEM must be an BIS/ISO/European CE or USFDA certified company 
 
Warranty and After Sales Service:  
 The Equipment including all accessories including bought out items should be under 
WARRANTY for a period of 5 YEARS after successful commissioning.  
 Comprehensive maintenance contract rates for 5 YEARS after warranty must be quoted.  
 Specifications are broad based and general so as to allow multiple bidders to compete as 
per GFR (173) (IX)  
  
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS (GIB) 
1. Preamble: -   
a) Earnest Money Deposit: EMD amounting to Rs. Rs. 27,200 /- (Rupees Twenty Seven 
thousand and Two Hundred only) (refundable to unsuccessful bidders after award of the 
contract) to be deposited in the following Bank Account details (Account no: A/C 
38321557910, IFSC Code SBIN0061485 Account Name - AIIMS Mangalagiri – 
Receipts) State Bank of India or Demand Draft may be drawn in the favor of “Director 
AIIMS Mangalagiri” and payable at Mangalagiri from any Scheduled bank with validity 
of 180 days from date of publishing to be submitted. The EMD should be furnished along 
with the technical bid.  
      The Original DD EMD should reach O/o Procurement Cell, 2nd Floor, Room no: 26 
Admin & Library building, AIIMS Mangalagiri, Guntur -522503 within the bid 
submission date and time for the tender. Bids received without EMD or Late will be 
rejected. 
Exemption: Firms registered with NSIC/MSME (for sales & Service of Similar Items) are 
exempted from submission of EMD (subject to the financial limits indicated in the NSIC 
certificate). Govt. of India/State Government departments/Undertakings are also exempted 
from EMD. However, the respective firm / departments have to submit the relevant 
certificate (NSIC/MSME etc.) and financial limit to avail this exemption. 
b) Eligibility of Bidders: - Before formulating the tender and submitting the same to the 
purchaser, the bidder should read and examine all the terms, conditions, instructions, 
checklist, technical specifications, etc. contained in the Tender documents. Failure to 
provide and/or comply with the required information, instructions etc. incorporated in these 
tender documents may result in rejection of its tender. 


