--- Page 18 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/CTVS/347/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 18 
 
 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR HIGH END COLOUR DOPPLER 
ULTRASOUND SYSTEM 
 
This machine should be a state of the art high end Colour Doppler System with full digital technology for 
the applications of whole body to include full cardiac and peripheral vascular applications, paediatrics and 
small parts applications. 
1. Fully digital portable ultrasound machine with provision for Doppler examinations. 
2. The unit should have a laptop type console design. The unit should be compact, lightweight and portable. 
Weight should not exceed 7 kg including battery (excluding cart and accessories). 
3. It should be suitable for abdominal, small parts and vascular applications in adults and paediatric patients. 
Multiple preloaded as well as user configurable application presets should be available. 
4. Minimum grey scale resolution to be 256 with 1024 or more digital processing channels. 
5. Maximum scanning depth to be 30 cm or more. 
6. The system to have a dynamic range of 165 decibels or more. 
7. The system should support Convex and Linear probes. 
8. Transducers (one each): 
(1) Convex electronic phased array transducer: 2- 6 MHz for abdominal imaging. 
(2) Linear transducer: 5-12MHz MHz for vascular and small part imaging. 
9. All transducers should be lightweight digital phased array broadband type transducers with at least 1024 
elements. 
10. The system should have a frame rate of at least 600 frames per second (fps) in B mode and more than 
300 fps in /Colour mode. 
11. The system should have an ergonomic full alphanumeric soft keys keyboard with easy access scans 
controls and trackball. Provision for attaching an external keyboard and mouse should be present. 
12. The System must have integrated high – resolution TFT/LCD/Single monitor of 15 Inches or more. 
13. The system should have cine loop review facility of not less than 60 sec/1000 frames. 
14. System should have 120 GB or higher capacity internal HDD. 
15. The system should have the facility of digital storage and retrieval of B/W and colour image data on 
built in CD/DVD Drive. Provision for USB port and LAN transfer of data should also be present. 
16. Imaging modes of Real time 2D, Colour Doppler, Pulsed wave Doppler and Power (energy) Doppler 
should be available. 
17. Controls for 2D mode: Total gain, depth, TCG, dynamic range, acoustic power output. 
18. Controls for Colour Doppler: PRF, colour gain, position and size of ROI, steering of ROI, colour maps 
and colour invert. 


--- Page 19 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/CTVS/347/2018-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 19 
 
19. Controls for pulsed Doppler: variable sample volume size from 1 to 5mm or more, steer, PRF, baseline, 
gain angle correction, spectral invert, duplex on/off. 
20. Measurements for 2D mode: Multiple distances, area and volume. 
21. Measurements for Doppler modes: Stenosis quantification in area percentage, diameter, PSV, EDV, 
mean, PI, RI, acceleration time and index. Automatic and manual measurements and display of pulsed 
Doppler calculations should be possible. 
22. Facility for storage on CDR should be available. 
23. Unit should function with 200-240 V, 50 Hz AC, 5 amp power outlet. Power requirement to be 
specified. 
24. In built battery backup should be at least one hour or more. 
25. Essential accessories: Black & White Thermal printer and color laser printer, UPS, mobile cart with 
transducer holder, jelly bottle holder and space for printer. 
26. Paper and cartridges for 1000 image printouts should be provided with the unit. 
27. The unit offered must be sturdy and should be able to withstand accidental hits and falls during 
transportation. 
28. The unit offered in the tender will require technical demonstration (MUST). 
29. Photocopy of purchase order along with terms and conditions of contract received from two Govt / 
Public Sector institution of repute in the last three years for supply of the offered equipment must be 
enclosed with the price bid. 
30. Price of the main unit and accessories to be quoted separately. 
31. Warranty: The unit, transducers and all accessories should be covered with comprehensive onsite 
warranty for five (5) years commencing from the date of issue of installation certificate. 
32. Rates for comprehensive maintenance contract CMC (including all spared and labour) for 5 years, after 
expiry of warranty period, must be quoted separately. 
34.  Company should give undertaking regarding the spares availability of the quoted model for next five 
years. 
35. The bidder should enclose the original product data sheet, brochure and compliance sheet, without 
which the bid will be rejected. Computer generated data sheet and brochure will not be accepted. The serial 
number of specifications must be indicated against the relevant portion of the compliance sheet and data 
sheet. 
 


