--- Page 18 ---
                                                                  Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/PMRD/2018/018/OT/A 
 
Page 18 of 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             Annexure-I 
Technical specification for the NCV-EMG EP Machine: 
 
1. NCV-EMG EP machine should have at least 2 Channels. 
2. NCV-EMG EP machine should be based on Windows 7 Operating System Desktop 
Computer with minimum configuration like Intel Processor, 2GB RAM, 500GB Hard Disc 
Drive, DVD RW Drive, Gigabit network interface card, good quality keyboard and optical 
mouse with scroll wheel. 
3. Amplifiers should have at least 4 Optically Isolated Channels with 14/16/24 bit ADC, 
CMRR should be > 100dB, Input Impedance should be >100M Ohms, Sensitivity from 1 
micro V/Div to 20 mV/Div and should have sweep speed in the range of 1 to 1000 ms 
/div. 
4. System should have hand held electrical Stimulator with stimulus intensity dial and 
stimulus trigger on handle. It should have start /stop switches provided on handle. It 
should stimulate with constant Electrical Current (from 0 to 100mA) up to 1 ms 
duration. It should be electrically isolated with independent controls. 
5. The system should have the following Application software as standard:- 
 Motor and Sensory nerve conduction, F -wave, H-reflex, Blink reflex, Repetitive 
nerve stimulation test, inching. 
 It should have packages for doing EMG acquisition and analysis, advanced 
quantitative analysis of EMG (facility to record/Replay EMG on Hard Drive). On 
single screen surface EMG, SP activity, interference pattern, single motor unit 
potential, turn/amplitude analysis should be possible. Manual/auto MUPs 
selection for analysis 
6. The system should have the facility for up gradation with optional Software to 
somatosensory SEP and ABR. 
7. The system should have the possibility to record EMG data in a format that it can be 
played with Sound in windows media player on any PC without the need of any 
additional software to be uploaded on the Computer. 
8. The system should have facility for Automatic Online Summary Report 
9. Standard Set of Consumables. 
10. System must comply to international quality ISO 9001, CE. 
11. Decision will be only after satisfactory demonstration of the equipment. 
 
 


