--- Page 39 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/VRDL/146/2024/GTE 
39 
 
Section –VII 
Technical Specification of “Automated ” 
Technical specifications of Automated Capillary DNA Sequencer 
 
1. A fully automated capillary electrophoresis-based DNA analysis system using the Sanger method 
with fluorescence-based detection, suitable for DNA sequencing, genotyping by fragment analysis. 
Fully automated multi-capillary system that works on the basis of dye-terminator chemistry 
(Sanger chemistry) and laser-induced fluorescence. 
2. At least 24 capillaries working in parallel to achieve throughput with 50 cm capillary length. 
3. The system must be able to detect and analyze at least 6 or more fluorescent dyes simultaneously 
to analyze DNA fragments and achieve better multiplexing capabilities. 
4. The system software should support to run sequencing and fragment analysis application on the 
same plate. 
5. The system should have 505nm solid-state long-life laser. 
6. System should be capable of supporting 4 plates; 96- or 384-well plates. 
7. System should have Cooled CCD detection technology and a spectrograph for color separation 
8. The system is capable of running “one polymer one array” for both sequencing and fragment 
analysis applications, enabling the user to seamlessly switch between both applications, even in 
the same plate. 
9. Digital support which offers smart help and remote support feature for fast and secure resolution 
should be present. 
10. System should offer connectivity flexibility via local area network(LAN), wifi, USB and should be 
LIMS compatible. Remote monitoring via a mobile device or networked device should be possible 
for remote monitoring and data visualization. 
11. System should be enabled with one-button start up and onboard learning center. 
12. The vendor supplying the instrument should have own application support laboratory with the 
technology in India for local & efficient after sales service-support. 
13. The system should be capable of doing sanger sequencing applications de novo, comparative 
sequencing, Long Read Sequencing, re-sequencing for confirmation NGS, indels, and heterozygote 
detection; and fragment analysis applications Microsatellite, SSCP, HMA (Heteroduplex Mobility 
Assay), Linkage analysis, LOH (Loss of Heterozygosity), AFLP, SSR, SSCP, SNP validation and 
screening. 


--- Page 40 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/VRDL/146/2024/GTE 
40 
 
14. System should facilitate continuous plate loading and sample reprioritization feature with 
walkaway operations for 4, 96/384 plates. 
15. The system should have an autospectral calibration algorithm that updates the dye matrix with 
every injection. 
16. System should have a smart inbuilt barcode reading mechanism facilitating tracking of samples 
using barcoded plates, and auto-links plate files without the need of an external barcode reader. 
17. A suitable computer system with pre-installed software should be supplied. Application Software: 
Necessary software for sequencing and fragment analysis with the flexibility of cloud based 
Softwares. 
18. Sequencer Software should provide reference-based analysis of sequencing reactions for mutation 
detection and analysis, SNP discovery and validation, sequence confirmation. 
19. Fragment Analysis software should be a flexible genotyping software that enables DNA sizing and 
quality allele calls. This software should specialize in fragment analysis and sequencing 
applications like multi-application functionality including Amplified Fragment Length 
Polymorphism (AFLP), Loss of Heterozygosity (LOH), microsatellite, SNP genotyping analysis. 
20. Variant Reporter Software should be reference based and non-reference-based analysis of 
sequencing reactions for mutation detection and analysis, SNP discovery and validation, and 
sequence confirmation. 
21. System should be quoted with the software with new advanced algorithm to support basecalling 
through heterozygous insertion-deletion variants. 
22. System should enable a Digital Support Ecosystem which offers Smart Help and Remote Support 
features for fast and secure issue resolution in addition to traditional on-site service. 
23. Vendor should have 2-3 reference install sites for the same model quoted. 
24. Comprehensive training in operation, handling, maintenance, and data analysis should be 
provided during installation by application specialists and trained engineers. 
25. The Vendor/Authorized Representative should have their own trained support team in their 
training center in the country with the same model to provide application support as needed 
during the warranty period. 
26. System should be supplied with Desktop/Laptop operating in latest windows-based software 
supplied along with laser color printer, 5 K V A UPS (Online UPS) with 2hr backup. 
 


--- Page 41 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/VRDL/146/2024/GTE 
41 
 
27. Single Channel Pipette set of 5 pipettes, 3 eight Channel Pipette, One bench top Refrigerated Centrifuge 
13000rpm with 1.5/2.0ml rotor, Electroporator, Plate centrifuge, 1500rxn of Sequencing Consumables along 
with 1000rxn of Qubit consumables and 2KVA ups with 2hr backup. 
28. Warranty: 5year. 
29. Free installation and operational training on the operation of the instrument, chemistry and software. 
30. The bidder should be Original equipment manufacturer (OEM) only. 
31. No Deviation in above specification will be consider. 
 
Note:  L1 will be decided on the basis of total value of  Equipment Cost with Warrnaty + CMC Cost 
+ Consumable Items. 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document for complete 
equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will 
be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date of 
satisfactory 
installation, 
commissioning, 
trial 
run 
& 
handing 
over 
of 
equipment 
to 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 98% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by double the downtime 
period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 
(days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service should be 
provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the spares for the equipment shall 
be available for at least 10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents (if they have the 
requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The 
same will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes preventive maintenance including 
testing & calibration as per technical/ service /operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, 
after satisfactory completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for 
complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site 
Modification Work (if any). The supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended in the 
manufacturer’s technical/ service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive 
maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender Opening. The taxes to be 
paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive 
of such taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be taken at Net Present Value 
with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory completion of said period, duly 
certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee for 5% of the cost of the CMC contract value as per 
Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of entire CMC period.  
e) There will be 98% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis, with 


--- Page 42 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/VRDL/146/2024/GTE 
42 
 
penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at least twice in 6 months (i.e. 
4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the 
successful completion of warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the Bank Guarantee for 
Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, wherever required. The 
Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be installed, in consultation with HOD of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College 
concerned. 
Site 
Modification 
Work 
details 
of 
each 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices 
indicating break-up of prices of the Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College. The Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken 
inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note1:Tenderer‟s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The tenderer is to provide 
the required details, information, confirmations, etc. accordingly failing which its tender is liable to 
be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of equipment for carrying out 
routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked for and should make sure that Electrical Safety 
Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS 
Safety Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 60601 is a 
part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they should provide a 
commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional 
Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development Centres across the country on every preventive 
maintenance call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface interoperability 
conditions for networked equipment in hospital management information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical training for 
personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at the institute immediately after 
its installation. The company shall be required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum 
period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC period 


