--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Minimally Invasive Cardiac Output Monitor   
                            Admn/Tender/138/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Minimally 
Invasive 
Cardiac 
Output 
Monitor  
1. It should be able to give continuous Cardiac Output using any 
arterial line. 
2. The Disposable Sensor should be able to give Continuous 
arterial pressure waveform when connected, on other bedside 
monitors with IBP modules. 
3. No calibration should be required for getting CO started. 
4. It should give Cardiac output update at least every 20 Seconds. 
With Provision for 5 min Average. 
5. Should be able to give Stroke Volume Variation and Stroke 
Volume  
 
6. It should also give Continuous ScvO2 
7. It should be pole mountable, must have display capacity of at 
least 4 channels with at least two channels for trend and 4 
numerical display. 
 
 
8. It should have the ability to analyse patient’s response to a 
specific interventions as fluid challenge, positional challenge, 
and interventions. All these interventions should be time 
stamped and stored for retrospective analysis. 
9. It should be able to give Continuous Systemic Vascular 
Resistance (on patient with a CVC line and pressure transducer); 
Stroke volume and Stroke Volume Variation too on continuous 
basis. 
10. It must save data for at least 72 hours. 
11. Must have screen shot and data download facility through any 
USB stick.   
12. It should have a touch screen of 8 inches or more. 
13. It should be able to give Transpulmonary Thermodilution 
measures, parameters related to blood flow, organ function and 
fluid volume like Extra Vascular Lung Water Index (EVLWI), 
Global Ejection Fraction (GEF), Global End Diastolic Volume 
(GEDV), pulmonary vascular permeability index (PVPI) with 
some existing/forthcoming sensors. 
14. Arterial pressure cardiac output Cable compatible with monitor - 
1 each to be supply with monitor. 
15. Cables for Cardiac Output by Arterial Pressure and for 
Volumetric Parameters (1 each) compatible with monitor. 
16. Demonstration mandatory. 
17. Operating manual should be supplied. 
18. Must have USFDA/ CE certificate. 
19. Disposable should be quoted separately. 
20. Disposables with each Monitor 
a) Arterial Sensor for Continuous Cardiac Output – 10 no. 
b) Central Venous Oximetry Catheter – 5 no. 
c) Arterial Catheter for Volumetric Parameters – 5 No. 
02 


