--- Page 45 ---
                                                                      
                                                             Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/CCU/FNIRS /2022-23/59/GTE 
45  
 
 
 
 
SECTION-VII  
               Technical Specification for  Functional Near Infra-Red Spectroscopy 
Specification of Monitor for NIRS(Regional Oximetry) , Brain Function , Oxygen 
Reserve Index, 
Continuous Haemoglobin, Fluid Responsiveness Monitoring 
 
1. NIRS(Regional Oximetry) monitoring with following features 
a) Should use Near Infrared Spectroscopy and reflectance Pulse oximetry for accurate 
monitoring to 
tissue oxygen saturation in brain. 
b) Should provide differential analysis of regional to arterial oxygen saturation for reference 
.SPO2 
c) Should have numerical Display of Regional oximetry (rSO2), O3 ( Forehead Arterial Oxygen 
saturation), Spo2, .base ( diff between current rSO2 and user defined baseline), AUC Index ( to 
quantify depth and duration of patient stay below Rso2 alarm limit), Spo2 
d) Should provide graphical Trend display for regional Oximetry 
 
2. Monitor for Non invasive Monitoring of brain Function with 4ch EEG Regional Oximetry, Oxygen 
reserve Index, Continuous Haemoglobin, Fluid Responsiveness, Perfusion Index, Pluse Oximetry and 
Pulse rate in patients undergoing surgery. 
 
3. Brain function monitoring with following features 
a) Should provide 4 channel real time EEG simultaneously for continuous assessment of both 
sides of 
brain 
b) Should have continuous numerical display of patient state index (PSI) a processed EEG parameter 
to help clinician access patient response to anesthesia and depth of anesthesia. 
c) Should display easy to interpret Density Spectral array representing EEG Power and Bi 
Hemispheric activity including asymmetry. 
d) Should also have continuous numerical Display of Suppression Ratio, Artifacts, Spectral edge 
frequency (Right & Left). 
e) Should provide customizable Trend and views 
f) Should have streamlined design easy and quick to apply sensor with plastic disk. 
 
4. Oxygen reserve Index monitoring with following features 
A) Should provide non-invasive continuous monitoring of oxygen reserve index (ORI) in patient 
receiving supplemental oxygen to ensure safety of patients 
B) Should have trend display for ORI and have alarm facility to notify clinicians of changes in 
patients 
oxygen index 
5. Continuous Non Invasive Haemoglobin with following features 
a) Should be able to measure continuous Non-invasive Haemoglobin, Spo2, Pulse rate, Perfusion 
Index, Pleth variability and Oxygen Reserve Index through same single finger 
sensor 
b) Bedside monitor should have selectable Spo2 averaging Modes – 2,4,8,10,12,14 or 16 seconds & 
Sensitivity – APOD, Normal and Max 
c) Should display continuous Haemoglobin trend to enable clinician take quick decision 
6. Monitor should have Multi touch Backlit TFT LCD Colour Display Atleast 10” size with Adjustable 
Brightness. Monitor should be high resolution (1280 x 800 Pixels ) 
7. Should also have an integrated hand held monitor. This monitor should be detachable and usable 
as a portable independent monitor with inbuilt battery backup for atleast four hours. 
8. Patient monitor should have rotational colour touch screen with automatic change to horizontal 
or vertical view 
9. Patient monitor should have facility to customize display to see parameter, waveforms or trends 
patient monitor should have trend function with facility to select one or two parameters and move, 


--- Page 46 ---
                                                                      
                                                             Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/CCU/FNIRS /2022-23/59/GTE 
46  
 
expand or collapse parameter trend for real time analysis 
10. 
Should have facility store patient parametric data and display trend up to 96 hours at 2 
seconds 
sampling rate 
11. 
Should have user configurable display setting and alarms for patient parameters 
12. 
Should have Audible and visual alarms for High/Low Haemoglobin (SpHb), High/Low Spo2, 
High/Low pulse Rate, High/Low PVI, High/Low Oxygen reserve Index, Probe off, cable disconnects 
and low battery 
13. 
Display and Measurement Range 
 Total Haemoglobin (SpHb ) – 0-25 g/DI 
 Oxygen Reserve Index – 0.00 – 1.00 
 Oxygen Saturation (Spo2) – 0- 100% 
 Pulse Rate (PR) – 25 240bpm 
 Perfusion Index ( PI) – 0.02 – 20 5 
 Pleth Variablility Index – 0- 100 % 
14. 
Accuracy 
 Total Haemoglobin : 8-17 g/DI 
ACCRACY: +-1g/DI 
 Saturation range : 70 % to 100 % 
Accuracy: +- 2% 
 Pulse Rate : 25-240bpm 
Accuracy: +- 3bpm 
 Oxygen Reserve Index : 0.00 – 1.00 
Accuracy : >_ 85 % sensitivity and > 80% specificity to a PaO2 value < 150 mm Hg 
 Trending Regional Oxygen Saturation (Rso2) ARMS – 3 % 
 Absolute regional oxygen Saturation (Rso2) ARMS – 4 % 
15. 
Resolution 
 
Total Haemoglobin (SpHb) – 0.1 G/DI 
 
Oxygen Saturation (SpO2) – 1 % 
 
Pulse Rate (PR) – 1 bpm 
 
Perfusion Index (PI) – 0.01 5 
 
24 Bits at 250 samples per second- Depth of Sedation Monitoring 
16. 
Monitor should meet international quality and safety standards and should be USFDA and 
European CE approved product 
17. 
The vendor should quote price for sensors valid for atleast three years 
18. 
The patient monitor should be supplied complete with 
a) Sensor for continuous Haemoglobin, ORI, PVI, Spo2, PI – 10 nos. 
b) Sensor for regional Oximetry – 10 nos 
c) Sensor for Brain function monitoring – 10 nos 
19. 
Should be compatible for connectivity with patient safety Remote monitoring and 
Notification 
system. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 47 ---
                                                                      
                                                             Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/CCU/FNIRS /2022-23/59/GTE 
47  
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE 
document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic 
parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of 
installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date of 
satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period 
by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After 
sales 
service 
centre 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service should 
be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the 
spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date of 
supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian 
Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the 
equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same will be in line with the 
training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site 
Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service 
/operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory 
completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for 
complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts 
wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The supplier shall visit 
each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer‟s technical/ service 
/operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive 
maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender 
Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of 
any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim 
for the same will be entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee 
for 2.5% of the cost of the equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 months after 
expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 
365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime 
period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee‟s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the 
Bank Guarantee for Annual CMC. 


--- Page 48 ---
                                                                      
                                                             Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/CCU/FNIRS /2022-23/59/GTE 
48  
 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 49 ---
                                                                      
                                                             Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/CCU/FNIRS /2022-23/59/GTE 
49  
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, 
wherever required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to 
be installed, in consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. 
Site Modification Work details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the 
end of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of 
the Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The 
Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking 
Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation 
the price will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be 
entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderer‟s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The 
tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it‟s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical 
equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety 
Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard 
IEC- 60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is 
not available they should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for 
electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test 
and Development Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance 
call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard 
interface interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital 
management information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost 
technical training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment 
on site at the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be 
required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and 
CMC period 


