--- Page 45 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Nanobio Spectrophotometer 
Page 45 of 66 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Nanobio Spectrophotometer   
with compatible accessories 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. 
Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ 
quotation clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the 
firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS for “Nanobio Spectrophotometer” 
 
1.  UV- vis Spectrophotometer for micro volume sample analysis. 
2.  Instrument must be capable to analyse minimum Sample Size up to 1 
Microlitre  
3.  Instrument must have unique sample-retention system (no cuvettes) to 
deliver the same exceptional accuracy and reproducibility. 
4.  Spectrophotometer should measure nucleic acid concentration at 260nm 
and purity using the A260/A280 ratio and A260/A230. Measure purified 
protein concentration at 280 nm. 
5.  Instrument must have the 0.2 mm - 1.0 mm path length 
6.  Spectrophotometer Light Source should be Xenon flash lamp 
7.  Instrument must contain CMOS linear image sensor detector for good 
results 
8.  Wavelength Range must and should be 230nm, 260 and 280 nm or 
better. 
9.  Spectral Resolution should be below 8.0 nm or better 
10. 
 Measurement Reproducibility of instrument must be 0.002 with SD of 10 
individual measurements at 0.74 Abs 
11. 
 Absorbance Accuracy should be at least 3% (at 0.97 A at 302 nm) 
12. 
 Absorbance Range must be 0–30 Abs. 
13. 
 Lower Limit of Detection must be 2 ng/μL for dsDNA and 0.06 mg/mL for 
BSA or better. 
14. 
 Maximum Concentration limit should be 1500 ng/μL for dsDNA, 45 
mg/mL for BSA 
15. 
 Analysis Time must be faster, less than or equal 5 seconds per one 
sample 
16. 
 Sample Pedestal Material must be constructed with 303 stainless 


--- Page 46 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Nanobio Spectrophotometer 
Page 46 of 66 
 
steel and quartz fiber for better life. 
17. 
 Instrument must be Stand-alone control with inbuilt touchscreen to 
display results, save up to 1000 measurements locally inside the 
instrument and data export via USB Flash Drive. 
18. 
 Should be FDA or CE or BIS approved product 
 
General Conditions  
19. 
 Bids should be accompanied by full technical specification of the 
model/make offered. Price quoted should be inclusive of Comprehensive 
Warranty (Including all Spares, Accessories and Labor) for 05 years from 
the date of installation. Also, the bidders are requested to submit their 
price quote for subsequent 05 years Comprehensive Maintenance 
Contract (Including All Spares, Accessories and Labor).  
20. 
 Bidders should clearly indicate the make and model number of the 
offered item. The make and model should be verifiable from the 
manufacture’s official website. (Mandatory: include URL for the quoted 
instrument in the tender document) 
21. 
 The bidder should provide a list and full contact details of Government 
institutes who are users of the quoted model.  
22. 
 The bidder should clearly specify the availability, locations, and address 
of after sales service centers for the quoted item.  
23. 
 Operational onsite training must be provided for the faculty members 
and technical staffs free of cost 
24. 
 Bidders should provide manufacturer’s authorization certificate for the 
quoted instrument  
25. 
 Should be FDA or CE or BIS approved product 
 
• 
Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description 
as per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item 
Description 
offered 
by 
Firm 
Deviation 
if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. 
Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the 
TE document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years 
from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work 
from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & 
handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty 
period by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) 
basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty 
period. 
2. 
After Sales Service:  
After sales service center should have trained personnel to troubleshoot 
complaints arising from the equipment. Service center should be available 
nearly the city of Hospital/Institutions/Medical College. Complaints should be 
attended properly, maximum within 48 hrs. The service should be provided 


--- Page 47 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Nanobio Spectrophotometer 
Page 47 of 66 
 
directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the 
spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date 
of supply. 
3. 
Training:  
4. 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ 
Indian Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and 
maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same 
will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical 
specification. 
5. 
Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment 
with Site Modification Work: 
a) 
The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ 
service /operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after 
satisfactory completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on 
yearly basis for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The 
supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer’s 
technical/ service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 
preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the 
CMC period 
b) 
The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of 
Tender Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the 
absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes 
and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
c) 
Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) 
The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank 
guarantee for 2.5% of the cost of the equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 
months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) 
There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) 
X 365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the 
downtime period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) 
Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of 
the Bank Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 
 
Note 1:  
Tenderer’s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The 
tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it’s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2:  
General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked for 
and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment 
to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety Standards IS-
13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 60601 is a part 
of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they 
should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety 
compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development 


--- Page 48 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Nanobio Spectrophotometer 
Page 48 of 66 
 
Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance call. 
Note 3:  
Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management 
information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical 
training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at 
the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be required to train 
the institute personnel onsite as and when required. 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC 
period 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


