--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Real Time RT-PCR                                                                                        Admn/Tender/09/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Real Time 
RT-PCR 
1. An automated system for both PCR and post-PCR end-point 
analysis, using in-built Peltier based PCR machine.  
2. The system should support applications including absolute and 
relative quantitation, multiplex-PCR allelic discrimination 
(SNP), melt curve analysis, pathogen detection and plus/ minus 
assays using an internal positive control.  
3. Peltier thermal cycling for Fast-PCR as well as Standard-PCR 
run available in the same block. 40 cycles in less than 40 
minutes as well as Standard-PCR run of 40 cycles in less than 
two hours.  
4. The system should have temperature range of 4-100 degrees C 
with peak block ramp rate for heating as well as cooling 
exceeding 4degrees C /second.  
5. Reaction volume should be approximately in the range of 10-30 
µL and can run the templates from different sources 
simultaneously.  
6. The system should support micro well plates, individual tubes 
and 8-tube strips.  
7. The system should provide Touch Screen LCD feature to avoid 
dependency on computer for operation. However, it should also 
be possible to use a computer for system control, operation, 
analysis and net-working of multiple system.  
8. Instrument should be supplied with a separate Desktop.  
9. Remote monitoring to analyze data by online web-browser 
based software or cloud-based data access browser should be 
available.  
10.  USB port for data export to Power point, Excel or JPEG 
formats should be present.  
11.  The system should be complete with licensed software’s for 
designing probes and primers. 
12.  System should be capable of operating in test development and 
IVD modes with enhanced security to enable compliance with 
regulations.  
13.  It should be an open system to use reagents from any 
manufacturer. 
14.  System should be calibrated for common dyes of broader 
wavelength excitation and emission spectrum. 
15.  Excitation Light source –Laser / LED. 
16.  Change of position, block or chemistry should not require 
calibration or tools. 
17.  The system should be capable of operating at ambient 
temperatures of 20-30 degrees C and relative humidity of 80%.  
18.  Power input to be 220-240VAC, 50Hz fitted with Indian plug. 
19.  Compatible online UPS with maintenance free batteries for 
minimum one-hour back-up should be supplied with the system.  
20.  Comprehensive training for lab staff and support services till 
familiarity with the system is established.  
21.  General Requirements :  
- The apparatus should be ETL and CE certified or should 
conform to equivalent product testing and certification 
standards.  
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Real Time RT-PCR                                                                                        Admn/Tender/09/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- User / Technical / Maintenance manuals to be supplied along 
with.  
- List of important spare parts and accessories with their part 
number and cost price . 
- Certificates of calibration and inspection from the factory.  
- Attach original manufacturer’s product catalogue and 
specification sheet. Photocopy /computer print will not be 
accepted. All technical data to be supported with the original 
product data sheet. Quote page number on compliance sheet as 
well as on technical bid corresponding to the technical 
specifications.  
- Satisfactory working of quoted model from Institutes of 
National Importance. 
 
Scope and Supply of Real Time PCR Machine including:  
(1) Satisfactory delivery of goods (as per contract) at site. 
(2) Satisfactory installation and commissioning at site.  
(3) Demonstration and training to the Doctors / Staff.  
(4) Joint report duly signed by supplier and end user of goods with date 
of receiving, installation and Commissioning. 
(5) Performance / super vision of the on-site assembly and / or start-up 
of the supplied Goods will be done by the Supplier.  
(6) Furnishing of tools required for assembly and / or maintenance of 
the supplied Goods will be arranged by the supplier.  
(7) Furnishing of detailed operations and maintenance manual of 
supplied Goods will be done by the supplier.  
(8) Performance or supervision or maintenance and / or repair of the 
supplied Goods, for a period of time agreed by the parties, provided that 
this service shall not relieve the Supplier of any warranty obligations 
under this Contract. 
 (09) Training of the Purchaser's personnel, at the Supplier's plant 
and/or on-site, in assembly, start-up, operation, maintenance and/or 
repair of the supplied Goods will be carried out when needed. 
 
NOTE: The bidder shall give a list of spares for two (2)  years 
operation (or as required for the period specified in the evaluation 
criteria) separately indicating description, quantity, unit price and total 
price in the above format, for those items whose scope of supply 
includes spare parts as per technical specification. 
 


