--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Phototherapy Unit (Full Body)                                                                   Admn/Tender/119/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
          
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Phototherapy 
Unit(Full 
Body) 
1. The machine should be US FDA approved with details of previous 
sales to reputed institutions. 
2. Full body cabinet with combination of 24 high pressure NB UVB 
and 24 UVA 100 watts lamps with double door design with 
standard accessories including 5 UV protective goggles and stable 
platform for convenient patient orientation 
3.   Rust proof cabinet outer body. 
4. Mirror coated Lamps safety grills.  
5. Rapid start ballast / choke (without starter) with international 
standard electrical safety features.(for less power loss, does not 
produce heat & consumes up to 40 % less current + up to 35% 
increase in lamp life)    
6. High gloss Aluminium Reflector inside the cabinet . 
7. Discrete observation UV Protective window (to see inside the 
chamber when treatment is on)  
8. Desktop computer control with keyboard and mouse for user 
friendly operation (easy to use & store the patient data, operator 
data, lamps usage data & other machine data etc.)    
9. Unit / Cabinet can be remotely located anywhere up to a 
convenient distance from the desktop computer control. 
10. Built‐in most recent UV software program / pre-programmed with 
the desk top computer. 
11. Built in UV power meters & Integrated Dosimetry control system 
with UV Sensors. 
12. Built‐in treatment protocols, customizable, with automatic dosage 
calculation (The system with built-in protocols, automatic 
metering, a data storage capacity for patients records)  
13. In case of software updates, no extra charges will be tendered. 
14. Patient database with space for managing of patient records.  
15. User accountability and tracking with lamps power output & usage 
hours information  
16. Notepad for patients specific comments, Keyless operation.  
17. Comprehensive messaging system with voice announcements. 
18. Printable patient records (Printable reports including Device Data 
Report and Daily Summary)  
19. Open top, space efficient design with reliable cooling system. 
20. Power requirement 3 KVA (when you switch on either UVA or 
NB UVB) (appropriate stabilizer to be supplied) 
21. Electrical Specification 220‐240 Volts AC, (as per Indian / 
international electrical standard)  
22. Warranty will be for a period of 05 years with 5 years AMC after 
expiry of warranty including all the parts (excluding lamps) lamps 
should carry a warranty of atleast 01 year alongwith a freeze in 
pricing of lamps for 5 years.   
23. Unit Dimension in inches Width : 40, Depth: 40 & Height: 80 
inches (all approximately)   
24. An on-site demonstration of equipment is mandatory, prior to 
approval. 
01 


