--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Laparoscopic Simulator                               
 
 
      Admn/Tender/78/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty. 
01. 
Laparoscopi
c Simulator 
1. The system should be fully computerised and interactive. 
2. PC and simulation processor 
3. 22" flat touch screen 
4. Foot switch for electrosurgical coagulation 
5. High performance force feedback  
6. Five (5) degrees of freedom 
    
7. High performance and precision 
8. Original adapted instrument handles (graspers) 
9. Interchangeable suturing handles with suturing module 
10. The system should be able to provide comprehensive training in the 
field of laparoscopic surgery. 
11. The system should feature built in tools for training group and 
individual trainee. 
12. The system should have all parameters to evaluate trainee. 
13. A web based simulator curricula management system, providing the 
optimal solution for managing training, reporting and education 
14. The system should have the following modules : 
a) Basic eye hand co-ordination skills 
b) Basic Laparoscopic Skills 
c) Tissue grasping, dissection and coagulation skills 
d) Basic and advanced suturing skills 
e) Trainee evaluation module 
15. The system should enable trainee to provide full simulation of the 
following procedures : 
a) Lap Cholecystectomy 
b) Lap Incisional Hernia 
c) Lap Full Gastric Bypass 
d) Lap Sigmoidectomy 
e) Lap Gyn – salpingostomy, oophrectomy etc. 
f) Lap Nephrectomy 
g) Lap Hysterectomy 
h) Lap Appendectomy 
16. The system should have options of selecting various hand instruments. 
17. The system should have energy sources like harmonic and diathermy. 
18. The system processing unit should be latest generation. 
19. The system should be CE certified. 
20. 3D anatomical maps should be available on certain modules. 
21. Short video of real-life procedures for better understanding of the 
trainee. 
22. Custom building of training modules for learners of all levels. 
23. Viewing and exporting of performances reports facilitates learning, 
analysis of training effect, showing the learning curve, research and 
future certification. 
24. Technical Skills Reporting and Assessment : 
a) Time and economy of movements. 
b) Safety and electrosurgical dissection. 
c) Procedural errors. 
d) Procedure specific checklist items relating to knowledge of 
procedures, handling of instruments and many more. 
01 


