--- Page 45 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/GTE/ Laparoscopic Surgery set  
 
Page 42 of 66 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Laparoscopic Surgery Set with High 
Definition Camera  
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. 
Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ quotation 
clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single manufacturer. 
Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
Laparoscopic surgery set with high definition camera Specifications 
 
A 4K Laparoscopic Imaging system will consist of the following items: All 
items should be Medical Grade and should be of the latest model/series. It 
should provide 4 times more information than a Conventional Full HD 
imaging system. The complete optical chain should be 4K for optimized 
imaging.  
1. Full 4K video image processor 
2. 31” or more 4K medical grade monitor 
3. LED light source with fiber optic cable 
4. Image/video recording, data archiving, signal management & 
streaming 
5. 4K Camera Head 
6. Ultra-Telescopes 
7. High flow Electronic CO2 Insufflator 
8. Smoke Evacuation System 
9. Suction/irrigation unit compact 
10. Video cart for laparoscopy 
11. Trolley  
12. UPS (ISO certified) 
1 
Full 4 k  Video Image Processor 
 
The processor for the following should be quoted: 
 4K video processor should have a native resolution of 3840 x 2160 
pixels system with a facility for ICG fluorescence-guided imaging by 
near infra-red light and should have 2D visualization in 4K resolution 
- Quantity-1  
 
 Should provide 4K and HD output 
 
 Video processor & Monitor having BT 2020 video format to display 
true 4K color format.  


--- Page 46 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/GTE/ Laparoscopic Surgery set  
 
Page 43 of 66 
 
 
 Should have touch panel operation for easy control/Keyboard 
operation of menu 
 
 Should provide colour gamut of ITU-BT2020 
 
 Should have AE (automatic exposure)  
 
 System should be ready to be used with video choledocoscope or 
other flexible endoscopes 
 
 System settings should be held in memory even after the video 
system processor is switched OFF 
 
 System should have a facility for Optical Contrast Differentiation 
System, and it Should have a special filter for observation of capillary 
vessels and fine patterns in the superficial layer of mucosa for early 
detection of lesions. 
 
 System Should be capable of Near Infrared Fluorescence Imaging 
(ICG application) with the below features: 
 
Overlay:  
White light image with superimposed display of NIR/ICG fluorescence. 
Possible to select the preferred color for NIR/ICG imaging:  
Either blue or green. 
 
Monochromatic:  
NIR/ICG fluorescence signal in white. Background in black for maximum 
contrast. 
 
Intensity Map/gain:  
NIR/ICG signal display will appear in different colors depending on the 
strength of the detected NIR signal. 
 
 Picture in Picture of visualization modes with Standard and Optical 
Contrast Differentiation. 
 
 Automatic adjustment of light intensity of the light source and 
controlled from the Camera head. 
 
 Outputs: All Compatible outputs should be there (12GSDI, D.P) for 
4K resolution and DVI for HD resolution. 
 
 Should have compatibility for selecting 3G-SDI or HD-SDI signal 
output (transmission method). 
2. 
31-inch size or more 4K Monitor 
 
 ALL in one Medical Grade Monitor capable of displaying: 4K 
resolution with ICG 
 Compatible with all processor of displaying 4K and ICG application 
 Should have multi-image display format  
 Picture out picture and flip pattern to rotate the image  
 Resolution of the Monitor in pixels: 3840*2160 
 Should be LED monitor  
 Should have various input and output 
terminals including 
3G/12G/HD/SD SDI, DVI-D, BNC(*5)And HDMI  


--- Page 47 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/GTE/ Laparoscopic Surgery set  
 
Page 44 of 66 
 
 Monitor should have Opti-contrast panel providing higher contrast 
image and less color blurring  
3. 
 LED  Light source with Fiber optic cable 
 
 4-5 mm Fiber Optic Cable and 300cm Long (2 in No s), adaptable to 
all provided telescope 
 Light guide cable should have small bending radius for comfortable 
use 
 Should be ROHS compliant 
 Should have touch display which provides an intuitive & user-
friendly interface that directly displays relevant data 
LED Light Source 
 LED Lamp should be covered under 5 year warranty/>30,000 hrs. 
 Should be compatible with 4K system and for fluorescence imaging 
for ICG application- Quantity 1 
 Automatic Switching to emergency lamp (Optional). 
 Automatic adjusts to light intensity to achieve ideal illumination  
 Should have in Lamp type: High-performance LEDs, white light LED 
and 
near 
infrared 
LED, 
which 
are 
active 
individually 
or 
simultaneously. 
4. 
IMAGE/VIDEO RECORDING, DATA ARCHIVING , SIGNAL 
MANAGEMENT & STREAMING- Quantity-01 
 
 Medical grade documentation unit with CE. 
 Controllable via the Touch screen of size 7” or more. 
 Capture video & images in 4K, UHD, Full HD, 3D & audio files. 
 Recording Media: Internal storage of 1TB & more, External USB and 
DVD-R  
 Should have full-featured graphical user interface 
 Should have dual channel simultaneous recording for 4K UHD & full 
HD 
 Should have simultaneous recording and playback feature. 
 All inputs and outputs should be capable of routing 4K, 3D, and Full 
HD signals in native resolution. 
 Supports network storage on file servers. 
 Offer two-channel simultaneous recording for still images & videos. 
 Should have customized windows-based operating system 
 Should have the facility of patient’s data 
 External CD and DVD player and writer to be provided from the same 
make/other reputed company 
 USB support for storage on USB drives. 
 Input / recording resolution: 4K UHD, 3D, 1080p, 1080i, 720p, NTSC 
& PAL m) Compatibility with HIS/DICOM/PACS. 
 User should have full control of the system from the sterile field via 
camera head buttons, optical touch screen, and optical foot switch. 
 Should have support for physician print, media, annotations, 
patients field, procedure settings, and individual surgeon profiles & 
preferences. 
 Surgical video & image unicast streaming in Full High Definition 
(1920 X 1080) over a local area network to multiple participants.  
 Unidirectional 
video 
transmission 
& 
bi-directional 
audio 
transmission. 
 Streaming 
picture 
with 
telestration 
and 
controllable 
to 
all 
participants. 
 
 Connectors;  
a. Input/output: DVI, S Video, 3G HD –SDI or higher, composite & audio  
b. Other interfaces: USB 2.0, USB 3.0 RJ-12, network RJ-45, and Remote 


--- Page 48 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/GTE/ Laparoscopic Surgery set  
 
Page 45 of 66 
 
control  
c. All necessary cables should be supplied  
 
 should have the following additional features;  
a. foot pedal control (Optional) 
b. endoscopy remote head trigger (Optional) 
c. microscope RS-232 communications (Optional) 
 
 following accessories should be supplied;  
a. Cordless mouse and cordless silicone keypad -01 in no. (Optional) 
b. foot pedal control -01 in no. (Optional) 
c. endoscopy remote head trigger -01 in no. (Optional) 
d. remote control-01 in no.  
 
 s) All the necessary cable should be supplied.  
 t) External colour laser printer to be provided with the system from 
the same/other reputed make. 
5.  
4K Camera Head 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pixel:                                         3840 X 2160 Pixels 
 AGC:                                         Microprocessor controlled 
 Lens:                                            Integrated Zoom Lens f = 18  mm or more 
Color Space:                               BT.2020 emulation 
Control buttons:                     Minimum of 3 (at least), 2 of them freely 
programmable). 
 
 Camera Head Should be able to perform both White light and Near 
Infrared application. 
 System should have a facility for optical contrast differentiation 
system and it should have a special filter for observation of capillary 
vessels and fine patterns in the superficial layer of mucosa for early 
detection of lesions 
 Should have CMOS sensor providing high sensitivity and less noise 
for clear image 
 Output resolution of the camera 3840*2160 
 Should iiAutofocus or manual focus function 
 Programmable  buttons on camera head: 3 or more 
 Should provide electronic Zoom Function (button controlled) – x 2.0 
electronic zooming in 6 steps (x1.0, x1.2, x1.4, x1.6, x1.8, x2.0)  
 Should be immersible in disinfectant solution and sterilization 
through ETO/autoclavable/plasma sterilization 
 The camera head should have excellent performance under low light  
6 
ULTRA-TELESCOPES 
 
 Telescopes with the 4K system should be quoted with Dimensions as 
below for White light and Near Infrared application  
 4K Ultra Telescope having ED glass lenses for distortion-free and 
razor-sharp images, with a wide field of view and fully Autoclavable. 
 Capable of 4k and ICG application 
 Sterilization tray for the scope should be quoted. 
 Homogenous distribution of light in the peripheral zone  
 Eye piece type of connection for uniform compatibility 
 10mm,30 Degree with 300mm or more working Length –  2 QTY. 
 10mm, 0 Degree with 300mm or more working Length –  1 QTY. 
 5MM ,30 Degree with 290 mm or more working Length –  1 QTY. 
 5MM , 0 Degree with 290 mm or more working Length –  1 QTY. 
7.  
Electronic CO2 Insufflator with automatic smoke evacuation facility with 
existing energy system- Quantity-1 


--- Page 49 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/GTE/ Laparoscopic Surgery set  
 
Page 46 of 66 
 
 Should be digital, microprocessor controlled and automatic type 
 Large digital display on front panel for status checking of the insufflation 
mode, set value pressure, current patient pressure, set gas flow, current gas 
flow, gas consumption and status of gas heating 
 Powerful Insufflation flow rate of 45 L/min or more required  
 Automatic feedback control for any malfunction.  
 Applicable for use in Laparoscopy and in Thoracoscopy 
 Heat able insufflation tube for heating the CO2 gas up to patient body 
temperature. 
 Should have automatic smoke evacuation facility with existing energy source 
in the OT  
 It should have CO2 gas cylinder switching valve to allow freely switch between 
two gas cylinders without the hassle of replacing cylinders (Optional) g) Need 
to provide a pin type CO2 hose plug which can be connected to Pin type CO2 
cylinders- 2 No’s 
 
Smoke Evacuation System 
 The system should provide excellent visibility through effective smoke 
evacuation and extracts unpleasant odors. 
 Should include a footswitch to provide surgical smoke evacuation for 
standalone activation during Laparoscopy surgery 
 Electrosurgical Integration Compatibility: Automatic activation via ESU 
footswitch of advanced ESUs 
 Should be compatible with Insufflators 
 Should have parallel suction and smoke evacuation facilities  
 The system should be operated via separate foot switch. 
 System should be supplied with all accessories. 
9. 
SUCTION/IRRIGATION UNIT COMPACT 
 
It is compatible with the central control System and can thus be controlled from 
Touch Screen of unit  
Touch controls and digital displays. 
Audible alarms in case of malfunction. 
Suction rate preselects are saved in memory 
 
The Suction/Irrigation unit should have the following technical specifications: 
 
• 
Power supply voltage:                                  100-240 VAC 
• 
Power frequency:                                          50-60 Hz 
• 
Operating conditions:                                   +10°C to +40°C 
 
Irrigation: 
Pressure: 
Selectable Mode:  0-200 & 0-500 mmHg. Or more 
Flow Rate: 
 
- Selectable Mode:   0-600 & 0-1300ml/min or more 
Suction Under-pressure:   
Selectable Mode:  0-(-)0.8 bar (80 kPa) or more 
Pressure indicator                                  Bar graph Display and Digital Display 
Flow indicator                                        Bar graph Display and Digital Display 
10. VIDEO CART FOR LAPAROSCOPY-Quantity-01 
 
Video cart compatible with the above system and should of same OEM/from a 
reputed make which is USFDA/European CE approved/BIS Approved. 
Should have the option of upgrading with Swivel Arm for secondary Monitors 
 
 


--- Page 50 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/GTE/ Laparoscopic Surgery set  
 
Page 47 of 66 
 
11. 1KVA -Online UPS- Quantity-01 
 
NOTE: Any other essential hardware/software/items required to make all above 
things functional should be quoted, otherwise it will be treated that same will be 
supplied free of cost. All products should be same manufacturer & should be US 
FDA or European CE approved (with four digit notified body number) 
 
12. Additional Requirement 
 
ICG to be supplied by vendor for 100 patients on a need to need basis. 
Others  
Installation, Commissioning and Training 
 
The equipment and all accessories should be installed, tested and 
commissioned at the Department of Surgical Oncology, AIIMS Mangalagiri 
free of cost.  
 
The supplier must train the technical staff and faculty of the institute, 
regarding all the operations available on the system 
Warranty and After Sales Service:  
 
The Equipment including all accessories including bought-out items should 
be under WARRANTY for a period of 5 YEARS after successful commissioning.  
 
Comprehensive maintenance contract rates for 5 YEARS after warranty must 
be quoted.  
 
All spare parts and consumables should be available with suppliers or 
principals for a period of at least 10 years.  
 
All repair calls to be attended to within 48 hours. 
 
Machine downtime should never be more than a week. The dealer shall 
provide a ‘standby machine’ in case the machine downtime due to repairs is 
expected to be more than 30 days as the patient services should not be 
affected. 
 
The principles would be responsible for the upkeep/ maintenance of the 
quote/ supplied equipment, besides honoring all the terms and conditions of 
the CMC/ AMC in the letter and Spirit 
 
Other conditions  
o Suppliers should have been in the market for at least 3 years  
o Suppliers should have made a large number of installations, within the 
last five years, in the country in reputed institutions and preferably in 
Government Hospitals with a proven track record of excellent after 
sales support for this system.  
o User-list of at least 3 users must be enclosed. 
 
 
 
 
Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description
as per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item 
Description 
offered 
by
Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 51 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/GTE/ Laparoscopic Surgery set  
 
Page 48 of 66 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. 
Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE 
document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the 
date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date of 
satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment 
to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty 
period by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty 
period. 
2. 
After Sales Service:  
After 
sales 
service 
center 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service 
should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the 
Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 years 
from the date of supply. 
3. 
Training:  
4. 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ 
Indian Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance 
of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same will be in line with 
the training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
5. 
Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with 
Site Modification Work: 
a) 
The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service 
/operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory 
completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for 
complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts 
wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The supplier shall visit 
each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer’s technical/ service 
/operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive 
maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) 
The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender 
Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any 
such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim for 
the same will be entertained later. 
c) 
Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) 
The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of DD/ Direct 
Transfer to the AIIMS Account for 2.5% of the cost of the equipment  valid till 2 
months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) 
There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 
365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime 
period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 


--- Page 52 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/GTE/ Laparoscopic Surgery set  
 
Page 49 of 66 
 
h) 
Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the 
DD/Direct Transfer in the AIIMS Account for Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 
 
Note 1:  
Tenderer’s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The 
tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. accordingly 
failing which it’s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2:  
General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked for and 
should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment to 
periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety Standards IS-13540 
which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 60601 is a part of the 
equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they should provide 
a commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety compliance with 
Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development Centres across the 
country on every preventive maintenance call. 
Note 3:  
Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management information 
system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical 
training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at the 
institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be required to train the 
institute personnel onsite as and when required. 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC 
period 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


