--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Data Acquisition System (for recording of ERPs with programme software) for Research Project                    
Admn/Tender/233-2/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Data 
Acquisitio
n System 
(for 
recording 
of ERPs 
with 
program
me 
software) 
for 
Research 
Project 
1. The system should have 4 channels and be able to record Event Related 
Potentials including P300, Auditory Brainstem Response, Visual 
Evoked Potentials etc. 
2. Hardware Specifications: 
 A/D Sampling Resolution: 24-bit 
 Voltage Output: Range -10 V to +10 V  
 Sampling rate - 100k samples/sec each channel. 
 System should have inbuilt impedance checker for electrodes 
for ERP. 
3. Software Specifications: 
 The software should allow to view, measure, transform, replay, 
and analyze data. 
 It should support Windows 10 or Mac OS X 10.11 and above. 
 Online analysis settings, filters, and transformations along with 
off-line analysis tools should be available. In addition Multiple 
display options should be available during and after acquisition. 
4. Features in software: online calculations, filtering, measurements, grid 
options, graph templates, Digital filtering, preview recorded data, 
annotation, event markers, peak detection, printing options, sample data 
files etc. In built instruction for experimental setup and design should 
be available. 
5.  Able to export data/ compatible data with Excel, Matlab, and other 
common formats. 
6. A stand-alone system to measure subject responses to visual or auditory 
stimuli. It should present visual stimuli on a computer screen, or 
auditory stimuli via headphones or speakers, and simultaneously send 
trigger signals for data synchronization and collection purposes to a 
Data Acquisition System (for recording of ERPs with programme 
software) for Research Project. 
7. The system should be supplied with SuperLab/ E-prime or other 
similar software for designing experiments including Stroop task etc, 
software to change the placement of visual stimuli on the screen, 
change the screen's background color, choose from a variety of input 
and timing options, and provide feedback to subjects based on either 
response or reaction time. Different trigger channels should be paired 
to different visual or auditory stimuli to perform sophisticated evoked 
response averaging tests. 
8. The system should include a module providing an optically isolated 
connection between the computer that is running the visual presentation 
program and the Data Acquisition System (for recording of ERPs with 
programme software) for Research Project.  
9.   A digital I/O card in case of using Laptop instead of computer should 
be supplied with other required accessories. 
There should be two computer systems- one for running the 
programming software like Superlab/E-prime etc and another for 
simultaneous recording of evoked potentials. 
01 


