--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Micro/17/41/Tender 
 
ANNEXURE-1 
Technical specifications – PCR Workstation 
 
Main specifications  
 Class 100 vertical laminar flow air 
 Exterior dimensions (H × W × D): approximately 30”x 32”x 24”  
 Interior working area (W × D): approximately 25”x 22” 
 Exterior: stainless steel or epoxy powder-coated metal.  
 Interior: stable formed stainless steel.  
 UV shelf with integrated pipette holder 
 Side panels transparent, able to absorb wavelengths below 400 nm.  
 Overhead UV light for DNA decontamination of 15W/254 nm 
 Timer and key lock for UV lamp; timer operates only when key lock is on.  
 Overhead white light; 15 W; at least 800 lux.  
 At least two plug outlets built into the chamber; AC 110 ± 10 V; 60 Hz; 5A fuse.  
 Should come with support stand with castor wheels 
Electricity requirements  
 Supply voltage: 230 ± 10 V, AC, 50/60 Hz. 
 Voltage and plugs to be adapted to meet the country requirements. The line cord / Power 
cord supplied with the equipment shall be of acceptable durability, length, and current 
carrying capacity complying with Indian Standards.  
 Power consumption: Depends on the electrical equipment used inside the workstation; 
maximum 1200 W.  
 Conform to electrical safety standards IEC 60601–1, UL 61010–1, EN 61010–1.  
 Protection class (in accordance with EN 60529).  
 Designed not to interfere with circuit radio (in accordance with EN 55014).  
Documentation  
 Manufacturer’s certificate  
 The manufacturer must have a management system certified to ISO 9001 and a type-test 
certificate of relevant optical and mechanical tests.  
 Quality and safety standards met by the product must be listed.  
Operation, maintenance and installation  
 Operation and maintenance manual  
 At least one set of operation, maintenance and service manuals written at least in English 
and preferably also in the official national language of the country requesting the 
workstation.  
 Installation and maintenance  
o The bidder must arrange for the equipment to be installed by certified or qualified 
personnel; any prerequisites for installation to be communicated to the purchaser 
in advance, in detail.  
o The bidder to also provide user training (including how to use and maintain the 
equipment) and a comprehensive maintenance plan. The cost of the maintenance 
plan to be defined and guaranteed over the period of warranty.  
o The supplier to provide an after-sale service.  
o The service to have competent staff, adequate infrastructure and sufficient spare 
parts to be able to respond to any complaints and to repair or replace the 
workstation within 14 days.  


--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Micro/17/41/Tender 
 
Standard maintenance tools  
 All standard accessories, consumables and parts required to operate the equipment, 
including all standard tools and cleaning and lubrication materials, to be included in the 
offer. Bidders to specify the quantity of every item included in their offer (including items 
not specified above).  
Spare parts  
 Each workstation to be accompanied by an authorized list of accessories and spare parts.  
 Set of fuses for the workstation.  
 Two UV lamps.  
Warranty: 5  years. 
 Warranty period starts from successful installation at site  
 Breakdown calls to be attended as and when required  
 Preventive Maintenance to be carried out annually.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


