--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/277/19/OT 
 
Page 18 of 22 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Specification for Surgical Microscope 
General specifications and terms 
 All units/ items including accessories should have quality certificate such as BIS/USFDA and 
European CE certified.  
 Manufacture should be ISO certified. 
 5 year warranty and CMC should be included. 
 Principal Company should have registered Office and Service Network in India, preferably 
Central India for better service support. 
 User manuals should be in English. Provision of trained manpower support for at least for 
initial 1 months after installation or up to a period when the staff/technicians at AIIMS Raipur 
are trained in handling, storage and proper sterilization methods of supplied equipment has to 
be ensured by the bidder. 
 Compliance statement should be submitted in a tabulated and point wise manner. 
 All firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender clearly marking the quoted 
items and number with highlighter. If necessary demonstration will be taken to ensure product 
quality. 
 All items under particular serial number will be purchased together from single manufacturer. 
 Product quality certificate required. 
Technical specifications for microscope  
Sr 
No 
SPECIFICATION 
1 
Working Distance: 200-600 mm continuously variable through motorized multifocal 
lens, activated through Hand or Foot switch and through Control panel. Manually 
adjustable override. Deviation of ± 25mm over the W.D range is acceptable.  
2 
Magnification range: Motorized zoom magnification with apochromatic optics .a. 1.2x- 
12x with 10x eyepiece.  
3 
PROMAG/ Magnification Multiplier should be offered for all 3 binoculars to share same 
magnification and field of view.   
4 
Field of view : Minimum field of View 15 mm -200 mm or more with 10xeyepiece 
5 
Focusing: Motorized via multifocal lens, activated through Hand switch &Touch screen 
control panel. Manually adjustable override 
6 
Focusing aid :Laser dot focus facility should be present in microscope 
7 
Eyepieces : 10x eyepieces 
8 
Light Source: 300W or more Xenon illumination with integrated 300W Xenon back-up 
with Automatic lamp Changeover in case of primary bulb failure. In case of electronic 
system failure the light should continue to work with manual override for optics 
adjustments. 
9 
Illumination Field Diameter: Should have built in automatic zoom-synchronized 
illumination field diameter, with manual override and reset feature. 


--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/277/19/OT 
 
Page 19 of 22 
 
10 
Automated illumination control: Should have Automated Illumination Brightness 
control; should be linked to working distance. Illumination also can be controlled by 
hand switch or foot switch. 
11 
Binocular tube :180 ° Tiltable binocular tube 
12 
Balancing : Auto-balance for the whole microscope 
13 
Suspension system & Height: Counter weight suspension system (Hydraulic suspension 
system will not consider), with individual brake release button on each handgrip for 
optics career only as well as whole microscope brakes. True overhead capability with 
weight bearing not less than 7Kg. Height in Stand by Position not less than1880mm. 
14 
Fluorescence: 1. System should be ready to use for ICG vascular fluorescence  
 2. System should be ready to use for Sodium fluorescence 
15 
Beam Splitter : Intergraded Beam Splitter (not visible from outside) 
16 
Camera: Fully Integrated Medical Grade FULL HD 1080p video camera and 
documentation system.  
17 
Display : FULL HD1080p Medical grade display System (atleast 27 inches) attached 
With the microscope system. (No External Monitor /detachable monitor will be 
acceptable) 
18 
Recording: Integrated FULL HD 1080p Medical Grade Recording system with inbuilt 
1TB HDD. DICOM should be integrated.  Latest generation microscope with own  Wi-
Fi net working capability should be offered, for safe wireless surgical data transfer to 
Surgeon’s mobile device.  
19 
Stereo co observer: Should have stereo co observation attachment for side assistant with 
straight binocular and 10X eyepiece. 
20 
Face to Face attachment: Built in face to face attachment with Tiltable binocular and 10x 
eyepieces. The system should have light guiding facility to choose between Opposite 
assistant and Side assistant position to preserve illumination for Main surgeon.  
21 
Footswitch: Wireless 14 or More functional footswitch control for microscope. 
22 
Image Injection : Images from external sources ( CT, MRI, Endoscope, Navigation ) in 
FULL HD1080p resolution should be injected into surgeon eyepieces on demand  
23 
Navigation Compatibility: Offered system should be compatible with all leading 
Navigation Solution providers (Medtronic, Brainlab, Stryker ).  
24 
After Sale &Service: After Sales &Service will be provided by the Manufacturer 
company. Should have sufficient stock of spare in their local office 
25 
The cost of all spares including optional items should be quoted upfront and should be 
valid for 5 years. 
26 
The vendor should have a good service and application backup along with instruments 
to provide an effective troubleshooting and support. (Response time < 24 hours) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


