--- Page 16 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Bio/19/03-158/OT 
 
Page 16 of 18 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Detailed Technical Specification for “Supply & Installation of Electrolyte Analzer”  
for BiochemistryDepartment at AIIMS Raipur. 
 
S. N. 
Item Description 
Qty. 
1. 
Electrolyte Analyzer: 
 
1. 
Fully automatic microprocessor based direct ion selective electrolyte analyzer which can 
measure Sodium, Potassium, Chloride and also give different interchangeable electrolyte 
configuration with only one Reagent Pack. 
2. 
Analyzer should be upgradeable to measure ionized Calcium and Lithium with the above 
reagent pack. 
3. 
Should be able to measure in whole blood, serum, plasma, urine, dialysate and other 
biological fluids. 
4. 
Capability to use several kinds of sample containers – collection tubes, syringes, capillary 
tubes or sample cups for sampling. 
5. 
All reagents as well as waste should be sealed in convenient container, eliminating need to 
change individual bottles or handle biowaste. 
6. 
Option to feed patient name and patient ID. 
7. 
Alphanumeric display. 
8. 
Built in thermal printer. 
9. 
Sample volume should not exceed 100 micro liters. 
10. Automatic 1 point calibration with each sample and automatic 2 point calibration every 4 
hours. 
11. Automatic flagging of abnormal patient results. 
12. Flame equivalent results for Sodium and Potassium, user programmable correlation 
factors for blood, serum, plasma, urine and dialysate (to compare with existing 
equipments). 
13. Warning and alarm system to monitor performance. 
14. Standby mode (automatic and manual activation) to conserve reagents. 
15. Built in sensor to ensure reagent pack has been correctly installed and also to monitor the 
amount of reagent in the pack. 
16. Facility for calculating the mean, S.D. and C.V% for up to three levels of control to ensure 
reliable results. 
17. Should be compatible for computer interfacing. 
18. The system should have 3 years warranty from the date of installation. 
Conditions: 
1. 
The system should provide budgetary quotation for CMC on the 4th and 5th year after 
procurement.  
2. 
All spares & accessories required for the system should be available for the next 10 
years. 
3. 
The system should be provided with compatible online UPS to maintain minimum 30 
minutes backup during power failure. 
4. 
The equipment should be provided with reagents to run 1000 samples. 
5. 
The firm needs to arrange for demonstration of the item quoted, at the department 
premises. 
02 
Set. 
 
 
 
 
 


