--- Page 21 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/18/244/OT/D  
   
Page 21 of 24 
 
          ANNEXURE-I  
      DETAILED SPECIFICATION FOR SPECIFICATION FOR ICP MONITORING 
SYSTEM (FOR EACH SYSTEM) 
 
ICP Monitoring system (ICP Express IEC 230V) with standard accessories 
Technical Specification  
 Latest technology digital Intra Cranial Pressure Monitor 
 Simple setup with operation prompts for user instructions, zeroing and calibration 
 Monitor should provide a continuous digital display of systolic, diastolic and mean ICP 
 It should be compatible with standard monitors to provide waveform display of ICP and 
various pressure wave patterns  
 Rechargeable 3-hour battery operation for patient transport 
 Audible and visual low-battery alert functions 
 User-programmable mean ICP alarms  
 Two-minute alarm suspend function  
 Adjustable LCD lighting display 
 Integral pole clamp 
 Should supply following standard consumable accessories with each machine:  
o 
Skull access kit: 1 set 
o 
Parenchymal access kit: I set 
o 
Reusable micro-sensor transducer cable: I set 
o 
Fiber-optic micro-sensor catheter 02 
 Manuals: One set of operator & service manuals with each machine. 
 Should be able to provide training of all healthcare personnel during first 1 month of 
installation in the group of 5 trainees per session. 
 Onsite physical demonstration of the machine with all standard actual accessories of the 
same makes which the firm intends to supply will be mandatory if demanded by the 
technical committee.  
The monitor with all the accessories has to be left in the unit for demonstration on real patients for 
at least 7 days. 
 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. Warranty: 5 years against  manufacturing defect  
2. All instruments should be corrosion resistant, autoclavable, BIS/European CE certified/ 
USFDA approved. 
3. Manufacturer of ICP monitoring system should be ISO certified. 
4. All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ quotation clearly 
marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. All the components of item  under a particular serial no. will be purchased together from a 
single vendor Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the firms: 
6. L-1 will be decided on total value only  
7. All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed government hospitals like 
AIIMS/ PGI/ and should submit a certificate of satisfactory working from the concerned 
government hospital. 


