--- Page 51 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/BPL/CUSA Machine/Neurosurgery/2024-25/GTE/010, Dated : 27/07/2024 
 
 
 
 
Page 51 of 77 
 
 
Technical Specification for CUSA Machine (Cavitron Ultrasonic Surgical Aspirator) 
 
Sl. No. 
Description of Function 
1.1 
Ultrasonic aspirators use mechanical ultrasonic vibration and an irrigation/suction 
system 
to fragment and remove soft tissue and high-water-content growths from various 
parts of 
the body. 
2 
Operational Requirements 
2.1 
The system should be quoted with two different frequencies of hand pieces. 
3 
Technical Specifications 
3.1 
Surgical aspirator should be based on magneto-restriction or piezoelectric technology. 
3.2 
The hand piece should have inbuilt cooling mechanism, if required. 
3.3 
The hand piece should be autoclavable and can be dismantled completely for cleaning 
with no inaccessible channels to trap tissue 
3.4 
The vacuum pump should provide preferable the suction of > 500mm of Hg. 
3.5 
It should have safety features like optical signal for failed hand pieces / malfunction 
3.6 
It should have on and off button 
3.7 
It should have integral suction with vacuum pressure of 0 to 90 Kpa. In continuous 
low 
noise and digital display. 
3.8 
It should preferably have 1.5 -2.5 liter capacity container of unbreakable material 
with 
level sensor and anti-overflow system. 
3.9 
Compatible Hand piece should be light, preferable 20-40 KHz 
3.10 
System should be quoted with below mentioned handpieces & Tips: 
 
1. Two hand piece needs to provide 20 numbers of tumour operating tips (Soft 
Tumour-12 & Hard Tumour-8). Hand piece should be in the frequency range 
of 
30-36 KHz. 
 
2. One Separate Endoscopic hand piece needs to be quoted which will pass through 
Endoscope for removing Ventricular Tumours and Cysts. 
3.11 
The irrigation pump should be inbuilt in the unit, the irrigation output 0-25cc/min or more. 
3.12 
It is preferable to have option for at least one handpiece to connect with Intra Operative 
Neuro Monitoring System for dynamic mapping. 
4 
System Configuration Accessories, Spares and Consumables 
4.1 
ACCESSORIES: 
1 
Trolley should be supplied from same principal company 
2 
Torque Wrench- 2 
3 
Infusion bottle holder-1 
4 
Foot switch- 1 No. 
5 
Instrument connection cables - 2 nos, if required 
6 
Suction / irrigation tubing, silicon twin tube-20 
7 
Autoclavable compatible instrument tray – 3 Numbers. 
8 
Power cables – 1 
5 
Standards, Safety & Training 
5.1 
Manufactures/Supplier should have ISO or equivalent certificate to Quality Standard. 
5.2 
Should be US FDA or European CE approved product. 
5.3 
Comprehensive training for 3 surgeon and 3 assistant services till familiarity with 
the 
supplied system at site 


--- Page 52 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/BPL/CUSA Machine/Neurosurgery/2024-25/GTE/010, Dated : 27/07/2024 
 
 
 
 
Page 52 of 77 
 
 
6 
Documentation 
6.1 
User/Technical/Maintenance manuals to be supplied in English. 
6.2 
Compliance report to be submitted in a tabulated and point wise manner clearly 
mentioning the page/ para number of original catalogue/ data sheet. Any point if not 
substantiated with authenticated catalogue/ manual, will not be considered. 
7 
Warranty & CMC 
7.1 
Equipment shall be supplied with 05 Years warranty and 05 years Comprehensive 
Maintenance Contract (CMC) after completion of warranty period.  
7.2 
  Warranty as well as Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) should be inclusive of: 
 All kinds of sensors, probes, transducers and all accessories. 
 Printers and imagers including laser and thermal printers with all parts.  
 Internal battery of the equipment, if applicable. 
 UPS including replacement of batteries and timely check-ups as per safety 
standards should be ensured. 
 Coating/Painting of the equipment (whenever required). 
 All third party items supplied with equipment. 
7.3 
Uptime shall be 98% on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Failing to which, a suitable 
penalty shall be imposed. 
7.4 
Supplier has to provide onsite repair and maintenance of medical equipment under 
warranty and CMC through authorized service personnel only.  
7.5 
If supplier fail to repair the equipment or wants to take equipment out from the AIIMS 
Bhopal for repair beyond stipulated time period then they should provide stand-by 
equipment within 7 days. 
7.6 
Supplier has to provide annual calibration of medical equipment as per NABH Standards, 
under Warranty and CMC 
7.7 
All instruments/tools used for calibration shall be calibrated and traceability certificate 
shall also be provided. 
7.8 
Calibration reports/certificates shall be submitted in the standard format. 
7.9 
Calibration sticker has to be pasted on the each equipment, indicating calibration done 
date and next calibration due date.  
7.10 
Preventive Maintenance Services (PMS) shall be performed by supplier at least once in 
every 6 months with submission of PMS report. PMS sticker has to be pasted on the 
equipment, indicating PMS done date and next PMS due date. 
7.11 
Hands on training and demonstration shall be provided to the user department/technical 
staffs during installation and as and when requested by user department 
7.12 
Supplier shall provide documents with equipment such as SOP, regulatory clearances, 
quality/safety/calibration 
certificates, 
factory 
testing 
certificate, 
user 
manual, 
cleaning/disinfection procedure etc.      
7.13 
List of consumable items (which will not cover under Warranty/CMC) with rates shall be provided 
separately, which may be fixed (RC) for at least 3 years. 
7.14 
Supplier has to ensure electrical safety of equipment as per standards and quality 
assurance of the medical equipment. 
8. 
Physical Demonstration of instruments is Mandatory at the time of Technical Bid evaluation stage 
and will take place at Department of Neurosurgery, AIIMS, Bhopal only 
 


--- Page 53 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/BPL/CUSA Machine/Neurosurgery/2024-25/GTE/010, Dated : 27/07/2024 
 
 
 
 
Page 53 of 77 
 
 
 Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description as 
per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item 
Description 
offered by Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE 
document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuum 
tic parts wherever applicable). Warranty period will be 05 years from the date 
of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date of 
satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment 
to AIIMS Bhopal 
b) In-case of complaint, and emergency number to be provided and complaint to 
be cognizance to be taken within 24 hours of complaint  
c) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty 
period by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
d) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty & CMC Period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After 
sales 
service 
centre 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service should 
be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that 
the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date 
of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian 
Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the 
equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same will be in line with the 
training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


