--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Image Guided Navigation System                                                                 Admn/Tender/165-2/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Image Guided 
Navigation 
System 
Navigation System for ENT 
The System should be easy to set up, user friendly, intuitive and 
should work under Linux / UNIX / Windows operating system 
environment. 
The system should have Optical Tracking technology along with 
Electromagnetic Tracking option. 
The system should have facility of keeping optical camera and 
viewing system together or separately to allow optimal use of O.T 
space, the system should have two monitors or two cart system. 
The Surgeon Monitor should be high resolution (1920 x 1200, 60 
Hz) with a viewable size of 20” or more widescreen. 
The systems should be plug & play with user friendly system 
software to control set up, registration and navigation.   
It should be capable of performing multiple types of registration in 
less than three minutes. 
Improved camera designed with greater field of view, a long 
camera handle, and laser pointer for easier positioning and aiming 
It should have total surgical control in sterile field on a fingertip 
with a touch screen monitor/or optical mouse. 
It should have provision of Rapid data transfer directly to the 
navigation station with the option of CD-RW/DVD-ROM combo-
drive and USB 2.0 port for direct data import as well.  
Should be connectable with OT monitor with appropriate cable. 
The navigation system should be operable with or without 
keyboard and mouse. 
The Software should be versatile and should support Functional 
Endoscopic Since Surgery (FESS) procedure, complex cases such 
as Coronal flaps and Lateral Skull base procedures and 
simultaneous tracking of multiple instruments, at least three. 
The System should be supplied with patient tracker/marker and 
Custom sterilization tray, which should be autoclavable/reusable. 
General Software/Application Specification 
The system should have complete ENT and skull base surgery, 
navigation and its application package. 
Display of predefined trajectory pathway in line and probe views. 
The software fuses axial, coronal and sagittal image sets of 
different modalities ( CT & MRI ) 
It should have universal instrument adapters with makers to allow 
tracking of any existing hospital instruments like drills bipolar, 
knife, probe, microdebrider and endoscopes Calibration of existing 
instruments should be done automatically ( if, applicable). 
Cranial Application 
Should have user friendly Cranial application software with Tumor 
and Frameless Biopsy software applications built-in the system 
Should have facility for marker less registration 
The navigation system should have point as well as surface 
registration with accuracy prediction system 
It should have universal instrument adapter tracking system with 
active & passive option 
The system should include a frameless biopsy system with needles 
(5 disposable needles should be supplied with the system) 
The System should be capable of interfacing with all major 
microscope systems, if required in future. 
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Image Guided Navigation System                                                                 Admn/Tender/165-2/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
The navigation system should have the software for stereotactic 
surgery including functional stereotactic procures. The software 
should re-orient the scanned images along the AC-PC plane. The 
stereotactic system should be adaptable to major frames like 
Leksell and CRW 
The system should have 3D graphics capability and software to 
merge CT & MRI images 
Look ahead view capability to show the images at 1mm to 20mm 
(increments of 1mm) in front of the probe 
The navigation software should be able to correlate with pre-
operative MR/CT images. These images should have view side by 
side or overlaid 
The cranial software should be capable of advanced visualization 
of the cortical surface, skull, vessels and ventricles 
All the instruments, trackers/markers should preferably be Autoclavable. 
(Desirable 
Instrument 
Calibration 
Matrix. 
Device 
for 
instant 
intraoperative calibration of length, diameter and vector of a rigid 
instrument along with adapters of different sizes for different 
instruments).  
Registration probe 
Straight probe 
Straight suction 
d) 70 degree curved suction (preferable) 
e) 90 degree curved suction (preferable) 
Osteum Seeker 
Sterlisation tray 
Head frame-kit tracker/markers, pad, adhesive, FESS tracker 
The virtual tip should be differentiated from real tip by 
color/dotted lines. 
The system should have registration with accuracy prediction 
system. 
The system should warn the surgeon by color change/audible 
signal when approaching the critical areas/the system should have 
dynamic visualization of distance to target point and intra-
operative landmarks or The system should have still photographs 
storage function as well as continuous video recording for 
documentation purpose. With appropriate cables/ adopter and 
connections for laptop and existing medical monitor 
Cart/Movable trolley for housing should have a storage capability. 
The company must have at least five successful ENT installations 
in India and list of the same should be supplied. 
There should be facilities to upgrade the system to be compatible 
with PACS system. 
Demonstration of navigation system is must to the satisfaction of 
user. 
Proper training OT technical staff by the company person. 
European CE and US FDA Certification 
EM Navigation System 
1. ENT Navigation Software should support navigated cases for 
various ENT Cases. 
2. Should have surface registration and landmark registration. 
3. Software should have a user interface designed for 
intraoperative touchscreen control. 
4. Should offer Real-time tracking and 2D/3D visualization of a 
pointer and up to 3 instruments simultaneously in various 
views. 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Image Guided Navigation System                                                                 Admn/Tender/165-2/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Should desirably have a pointer remote control of complete 
workflow, enabling full control of navigation system out of 
sterile field. 
6. Software should offer freeze functionality and screenshot 
documentation. 
7. Software should also have animated workflow guidance for 
easy setup and instrument calibration. 
8. Should support flexible patient referencing to help with 
positional independence. 
9. Should support free positioning of field generator around 
patient’s head. 
10. Software should have ENT optimized screen layouts with 
automatic overlay of CT and MR scans when fused, with 3D 
sinus probes eye view or direct comparison of two different 
scans. 
11. Planning tool for trajectories (entry and target point). 
12. Software should have Auto-zoom in to tool tip for 
magnification of target area. 
13. System should have Interactive display of patient data 
including windowing adjustment. 
14. Software should provide Point-to-surface distance indication of 
tracked instruments. 
15. Should 
have 
wired/wireless 
electromagnetic 
standard 
instrument for unsterile patient registration, which can be used 
in both anatomical landmark and surface matching registration. 
16. Should have wired/wireless electromagnetic sensor for flexible 
patient referencing. 
17. Should have skull reference base which enables flexible patient 
re-positioning and head movement for free positioning and 
variable fixation direct to bone structures. 
18. Should 
have 
disposable/reusable 
wired/wireless 
electromagnetic standard instrument for patient registration and 
navigation suitable for multiple surgeries. If disposable, 
minimum 10 sets of disposable instruments should be provided 
with the unit. 
19. Should have facility to integrate third party instruments - 
required adapter size should be for small, medium, large, extra-
large, and conical and for cylindrical instruments. Also a set of 
disposable instruments set for at least 200 surgeries should be 
provided. 
20. The data sheet of disposables, if any, should clearly indicate 
the number of times it can be used and the manufacturer should 
provide a written authorization to that effect as well. 
21. The price of all the disposables FOR ENTIRE SYSTEM 
QUOTED should also be quoted separately, apart from 
combined unit, to be used in future for procurement. 
The company will provide software/technological upgrades to the entire 
supplied unit for next five years, free of cost. 
 


