--- Page 20 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Micro/226(IV)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 20 
 
 
Technical Specifications for the Inspissator 
1. A shallow polish stainless tray rested inside a tank containing water. The whole 
undersurface of the tray is in contact with water at a constant temperature which ensures 
that the temperature of the McCartney bottles with media is also constant. 
2. The surface of the tray is a series (3 or 4) of sloping steps (at 9 degree angle above the 
horizontal) and will hold 160 to 170 McCartney bottles (Each McCartney bottles is of 28ml 
capacity, Length 82 mm with maximum external diameter of the bottom of bottle 28.2 mm)  
3. A blanket and quilt should be provided to be placed over the containers to exclude draughts 
and a quilted cover provides thermal insulation: both blanket and quilt are made from 
insect-resistant materials. 
4. The temperature ofthe water under the tray is controlled by a digital immersion thermostat. 
Accuracy and reproducibility of set temperature are ensured with the digital display of actual and, at 
the touch of a button, set temperature. 
5. Built in Electronic timer (0–6 hours) which gets activated once set temperature is achieved. 
6. The control unit is mounted on a bridge plate over one end of the bath, from which heater, stirrer 
and temperature sensors project down into the bath. 
7. All moving parts are incorporated in the control unit which removable for servicing.  
8. The tray and tank are made of polished stainless steel.  
9. A constant level device is fitted to maintain the water level despite evaporation losses.  
10. Instrument must also meet following standards 
i. 
Standard working temperature: 85°C 
ii. 
 Operating temp. range: ambient +5 to 90 °C.; 
iii. 
Temperature display: LED;  
iv. 
Display resolution: 0.1°C; 
v. 
Uniformity: tray surface + or - 0.7°C; 
vi. 
Heater power: (approx.)1.4Kw, 230V+;  
vii. 
Tank capacity: (approx.) 45 lit; 
viii. 
Heat up rate from 20 to 850C in maximum of 3.5 hours at ambient temperature; 
ix. 
Working area: length/width: (approx.) 820/594mm; overall dimensions (approx).: 1enght /width 
/height : 1040/600/380mm;  
x. 
Over temperature protection and Fixed cut-out;  
xi. 
Approx. weight: 25-35 kgs 
xii. 
Must work at Electrical power: 220-240V 50/60 Hz, 1.5kW(approx.) , 
xiii. 
The line cord / Power cord supplied with the equipment shall be of acceptable durability, length, 
and current carrying capacity complying with Indian Standards.. 


--- Page 21 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Micro/226(IV)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 21 
 
 
11. Operation, maintenance and installation 
i. 
Operation and maintenance manual (to be supplied in original, no photocopy will be 
entertained) 
ii. 
At least one set of operation, maintenance and service manuals written in English. 
iii. 
The bidder must arrange for the equipment to be installed by certified or qualified personnel; 
any prerequisites for installation to be communicated to the purchaser in advance, in detail. 
iv. 
Supplier must agree to provide IQ, OQ and PQ certification at the time of installation or as per 
the convenience of end user of the institute. 
v. 
The bidder to also provide user onsite training (including how to use and maintain the 
equipment) and a comprehensive maintenance plan on mutually agreed dates with the 
indenting department. The cost of the maintenance plan to be defined and guaranteed over the 
period of warranty.  
vi. 
The supplier to provide an after-sale service by competent staff, adequate infrastructure and 
sufficient spare parts to be able to respond to any complaints and to repair or replace the 
instrument within 7days.A half yearly essential service visits by service engineer has to be 
provided by supplier which may include training and up gradation of technicians and faculty 
and calibration and maintenance of instrument (with or without complaint visits). The 
maintenance services should be such that the equipment remains in working conditions during 
95% of warranty and CMC period.  
12. Standard maintenance tools: All standard accessories, consumables and parts required to 
operate the equipment, including all standard tools and cleaning and lubrication materials, to be 
included in the offer. Bidders to specify the quantity of every item included in their offer 
(including items not specified above). 
13. Spare parts: Instrument to be accompanied by an authorized list of accessories and spare parts. 
14. A five year comprehensive warranty with spares and accessories to be provided by the bidder. 
15. A CMC for next 5 years (after completion of successful warranty period)with spares and 
accessories needs to be included in quote. Complete price should be quoted for different 
consumables/spare parts which will be used in future in the machine.  These prices should be 
freezed for subsequent five years and in case of reduction of price the lower price to be 
communicated and to be charged by the supplier. Undertaking must be given by the supplier in 
this regards. 
 


