--- Page 18 ---
Tender for Supply, Installation, Testing & Commissioning of Bench-Top Flow Cytometer with High End Cell Sorter workstation 
 
                 E-Tender No. 051 AIIMS/BPL/STORES/CIF/FACS/2019-20 Dated: 01.10.2019            Page 18 of 42 
 
 
Specification of Bench-Top Flow Cytometer with High End Cell Sorter 
workstation (1 No.) 
1. Bench top fixed aligned/ easy to align flow cytometer cell sorter required with four laser solid 
state 488nm blue laser, 630-640nm red laser, 561nm YG (yellow Green) laser and 405nm 
violet laser. 
2. System must be upgradable with more laser & color in future. 
3. The system should have 12 fluorescence/colors (14 parameters including Forward & Side 
scatter) measurement capability simultaneously, upgradable up to 18 fluorescence/colors (20 
parameters).  
4. The system should have fixed aligned system without custom alignment for ease of 
operations keeping all level of users into consideration. 
5. System must have independent laser beam spots/pin holes for all the lasers quoted (minimum 
4) without any customization to the main unit. 
6.  The system should have nozzles of various sizes (70-75/80/100 and 120-130 micron) as per 
requirement & their removal and insertion should be possible without realigning the optics or 
the fluidics of the instrument.  
7. The system should be able to acquire at least 70000 events/second.  
8. The system should have built in sorter capable of sorting speeds up to 70000 events/second 
with 2- & 4-way sorting. 
9. The system should be able to provide various sheath pressure options upto 75 psi. 
10. The system should have option of automatic cell deposition unit which allows for slide and 
plate sorting into 6, 24, 48, 96 and 384 plates. 
11. Viability & yield should be more than 90% in routine applications. 
12. The system should be capable of all basic to high end research applications including stem 
cell sorting. 
13. Upgradable to BSC in future (Class II A2 type) 
14. The company should offer the latest and updated model and should have a dedicated training 
center with documented proof of conducting regular training for research applications.  
15. User lists & performance certificates should be quoted at least from 5 Govt. users from India. 
16. The Bidder should have to organize on-site training of manpower and technical staff after 
installation. 
Software 
17. System should have one million event file in the software with both online and offline 
compensation during data analysis. 
18. The system should come with original suitable Software for acquisition, data analysis for all 
the applications including Bead array applications. 
19. One additional data stations and a laptop of specification with at least 8th Gen i7 processor @ 
3.16 or more GHz, 1000 GB hard drive or more, DDR4 RAM 16 GB or more, DVD/CD 
ROM R/W combo drive, two 2 TB external hard Disk, compatible (23”x2) LCD monitors 
and two MFP color laser printers. 
20. System should have feature of software adjustable sample input agitation and temperature 
control, indexing of cells of interest and QC management for at least past one month. 


--- Page 19 ---
Tender for Supply, Installation, Testing & Commissioning of Bench-Top Flow Cytometer with High End Cell Sorter workstation 
 
                 E-Tender No. 051 AIIMS/BPL/STORES/CIF/FACS/2019-20 Dated: 01.10.2019            Page 19 of 42 
 
21. Online PO compatible instrument should be provided with the warranty and any up- 
gradation in the software should be provided free of cost during the warranty period. 
22. The company should have at least 30 installations of flow cytometer in India. The company 
should provide user certificates & Complete details of service and application support should 
be given along-with onsite installation and training. 
23. Also, company should have facility for technical support, troubleshooting & training on the 
same system within or outside the country on its cost. 
24. Free upgradation of software.  
25. Instrument shall be supplied with all the accessories required to function.  
26. The price list of all optional accessories and consumables shall be attached with offer for 
future reference for purchase. 
27. Five years on-site warranty and CMC for subsequent 5 years after successful completion of 
warranty. 
    Application: 
28. System should be capable of analyzing markers on, and inside the Leucocytes, Apoptotic 
marker, cell cycles marker, SP cells marker and infectious application viz. HIV, tuberculosis, 
Leishmania, Malaria, Toxoplasma along with cytokines, chemokines, phosphokines markers 
etc. in the suspension & supernatants using assays. 
    Other conditions: 
29. The firm must supply a compatible 5 KVA online UPS with 30 minutes backup with the 
system. 
30. The firm should create the flowcytometer workstation laboratory with complete essential 
equipment/reagents including HP color laser jet printer Pro MFP M477 or equivalent,  
calibration reagents/kits, FACS tubes (1000 nos), sheath fluid (20 units), disinfection 
solution, other essential accessories should be provided with equipment’s. 
31. The company shall also make appropriate arrangements for accreditation of the tests and 
arrange QC material time to time free of cost at least for 5 years. 
32. All pre-installation requirements after survey of installation site, e.g. AC, power outlets etc. 
will be the responsibility of the company. 
General Clauses:  
1. Only Principal Companies or Authorized Distributors from Principal companies should 
quote. Quotations from non - authorized distributors will not be entertained. Features in the 
quotations should be substantiated with proper Principal Company Catalogue.  
2. Should operate under a Quality Management System which complies with the requirements 
of ISO 9001:2008 for design, manufacture and services.  
3. Should be CE (Europe)/UL /EMC/CSA certified.  
4. The Bidder shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be installed, in 
consultation with HOD of concerned user department. The Bidders to quote prices indicating 
break-up of prices of the Machine and Turnkey Job of each equipment. The Turnkey costs 
may be quoted in Indian.  
5. Copies of all certifications e.g. Quality Standard certificate, Proprietary Item/parts, Patent of 
parts/ technology, Principal company/Authorized Distributorship should be attached with the 
quotations.  
6. In-house service engineers from principal company/ or authorized agents should be available 
in India on one-day notice basis in case of emergency (this will apply for those equipment 
wherein this clause is not built into the specification).  


--- Page 20 ---
Tender for Supply, Installation, Testing & Commissioning of Bench-Top Flow Cytometer with High End Cell Sorter workstation 
 
                 E-Tender No. 051 AIIMS/BPL/STORES/CIF/FACS/2019-20 Dated: 01.10.2019            Page 20 of 42 
 
7. Compliant points should be given (in the sheet) in order of the specifications’ serial order. 
Compliant points should be highlighted in the company catalogue with page number.  
8. Must include: User’s list with telephone numbers and email address.  
9. Vendor should submit an undertaking from manufacture the responsibility of maintenance in 
case of merger or acquisition.  
10. Rate list of spares should be provided.  
11. A performance certificate from at least 2 users should be provided.  
12. A rate contract for all the consumables (including kits and panels) should be made & the rates 
should be frozen for 5 years. In case of decline in price, these should be offered.  
13. Installation should be within the time frame specified in the supply order, failing which the 
company shall be penalized at 0.2% of total cost per week to increase to maximum of 15%.  
14. Downtime for minor issues should not be more than 48 hours.  
15. For major issues that may require import of spares, the downtime should not be more than 10 
working days.  
16. If the financial bid is made in foreign currency, then the Letter of Credit made shall be for 
70% of the total cost. The remaining 30% shall be paid after successful installation and 
working for a minimum of 30 days after installation.  
 
CMC/AMC  
 Penalty clause: Direct presence in India with strong after-sales technical and service 
support and must ensure that all faults are rectified within one week, failing which would 
lead to extension of warranty by twice the period of downtime. The warranty should be 
all inclusive.  
Vendor Liability 
 Provide technical and application support for 3 years to handle the equipment at 
company’s expenses following satisfactory installation.  
 In house training and training of minimum 2 research staff to the center of 
excellence/Factory training should be provided. 
 
 
 


