--- Page 65 ---
 
 
 
SECTION – VII 
TECHNICAL  SPECIFICATIONS  
1.      Unit should be able to give very high image quality with advance technologies like compound imaging for better 
contrast resolution, tissue differentiation and edge detection, equivalent to high end cart based systems. Please 
specify the technology. 
2.      Unit should be compact, durable & less than 5 kg in weight. 
3.      Imaging modes of Real time 2D, Color Doppler, Power Doppler, Pulsed wave Doppler, Continuous wave Doppler 
must be available. 
4.      System should have both online (Read) as well as offline (Write) zoom facility 
5.      System must have fast start up to scanning in less than 30 seconds from off condition. 
6.      System should support transducer technologies like phased array, convex, linear & TEE format. 
7.      The system should have a broadband architecture with an operating frequency of at least 1 to 15 MHz 
8.      Cine memory should be available on all operating modes. 
9.      The system shall process a dynamic range that is at least 165db. The system must display at a maximum depth of                  
35 cm. 
10.  The offered unit must have Flat LCD/ TFT monitor of at least 12 inches with anti glare coating and flicker free image. 
11.  Alphanumeric soft keys backlit and splash resistant keypad with easy access scan controls, facility to sanitize the   
      system keyboard to avoid cross contamination. 
12.  The system must have the ability to function by AC/DC or battery power with the same degree of functionality, the  
       battery life (run time) shall be al least 2 hours. 
13.  The system must have archive capability for storage & retrieval of images and clips. It should have atleast 2 USB  
       slots, which allow for direct sharing of images (JPEG) and clips (AVI) to a PC. 
14.  Unit & transducers must be rugged, resistant to breakage & damage on fall/hit so as to withstand busy & field  
       situations. 
15.  The system must have in-built memory of at least 16 GB for storing Patient data & studies. 
16.  The system shall support the all DICOM functionality, Storage, Print, and Work List, also ready to connect to PACS. 
17.  System should have European CE / US FDA / BIS quality certification. 
18.  Should be supplied with a 6-13 MHz (±1 MHz) multi-frequency, broadband linear array transducer for vascular,  
      venous, small parts, thyroid, musculoskeletal, nerve imaging. 
19.  A trolley must be supplied to store and/or transport the system. 
20.  Triple Transducer Connector with electronic switching facility to toggle between transducers should be provided. 
21.  Needle visualization software which can dynamically optimize the image to give the best possible view of the needle   
       in real time should be provided. 
22.  Should be supplied with thermal printer. 
23.  Should be brand new and unused. 
24.  Main unit and transducers should be covered with comprehensive onsite warranty for 5 years commencing from the   
      date of issue of installation certificate.  
25. Onsite training and education material must be provided post installation of the system. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


