--- Page 11 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
Annexure-I 
 
Technical Specifications for Picture Archiving and Communications System (PACS) Radiology 
information System (RIS) Vendor Neutral Archive (VNA) and Advance Visualization Software. 
 
The proposal shall include:   
Quantity  
System pricing.  
  
Technical description of the product offering and the specific configuration for 
the hospital.  
  
Individual responses to each normative requirement using the requirement 
identification numbers in this RFP.  
  
Information as required by other requirements in this RFP.  
  
  
  
The proposal shall also be submitted as a PDF File on a CD-ROM.   
  
The proposal shall explicitly identify every normative requirement of this RFP, 
which is not met by the vendor‟s offering.  If a requirement will be met in the 
future, the vendor may provide a schedule of commercial availability for future 
enhancements, which redress the non-compliance, together with their prices.  If a 
requirement will not be met by a planned enhancement of the system, the vendor 
may explain the impact of the deficit on overall system functionality.  
  
Tender document for Digital Healthcare Solution for Radiology and High 
Acuity Care Area in the hospital  
  
Introduction  
  
Broad functional specification, configuration and capabilities for the solution is 
given below.  Specifications quoted are essential requirement of this system 
while terms & conditions are mentioned separately.  Cost of the item/feature 
wherever asked should be quoted in the price bid only.  Competitive bids are 
invited for the Digital Healthcare Solution for Radiology and High Acuity Care 
areas for the hospital. System must be optimized for higher and excellent 
performance.  The system should be designed to address the clinical needs of  
  
radiologists, Critial Care Doctors, physicians, technicians and other group of 
hospital personnel and the various clinical areas mentioned where the proposed 
solutions need to expanded to. It should particularly facilitate integration of 
OTdeviceson the same IT platform. It must help viewing DICOM and clinican 
data from OT across the hospital on the existing network.  The system should be 
cost effective, reliable and must provide excellent performance with technical 
features for clinical imaging and easy operation. When required, additional 
information should be provided as a separate document referring to the specific 
section been addressed.  When the standard vendor date sheet disagrees with the 
bid response, Clarification should accompany in the form of letter/certificates 
from appropriate authority in the absence of which vendor data sheet will prevail 
for the purpose of evaluation and decision of the technical evaluation committee 
of the institute which shall be final and binding on the supplier.   
  
Clinical IT solutions in the hospital space, Electronic Medical Records (EMRs) 
are an evolving technology requirement and specifications are changing every 
day due to advances in technology.  Newer technique and technology is being 
added every now and then.  Keeping these changes in mind, the requirements 
and specifications given here are just the guidelines.  Changes may happen at the 
final order placement.  Vendor must be prepared to keep track of latest 
development in the market and be ready to supply the latest system at the time of 
order and installation.  
  


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page12 
 
Institute is looking for an enterprise platform for Radiology & OTs so that 
multiple clinical information located in various areas of the hospital can be 
consolidated on a unified platform. The main aim of the requsted healthcare IT 
solution is to achieve more clinical strength, additional clinical and workflow 
tools, intergrated digital OT, Post Processing and capability to handle DICOM 
(Radiology) & clinical data (OTs - Ventilator, Critical parameter monitor, etc) 
and consolidate them using a digital healthcare platform. The institute also aims 
to provide complete film less and paperless services from the  
  
various department which will be connected to this solution. To support that the 
hospital seeks a qualified system integrator (Vendor) to install the requested 
solution to improve access to patient information, reduce operating cost with 
customer focus and promote the hospital competitive position for improved 
patient services and increased productivity as well as enhancing the quality of 
patient care.  Vendors shall provide cost effective, solution based, integrated 
approach proposal for improving the various workflows which are needed as part 
of the various clinical areas where the solution will be deployed / integrated. The  
solution should be based on turnkey basis only. Turnkey means that vendor is 
responsible for meeting all the requirements defined in this document including 
all 
performance 
requirements, 
system 
integration, 
installations, 
warranty/maintenance, training and system availability/uptime requirements.  
  
The detailed specification that follows shall be understood to be minimum 
requirement.  Any item not covered under standard set should be quoted 
separately.  Additional technical features suitable to our requirement will be 
given due preference. There may be repetition in specification at some places; 
this is mainly to clear the subject.  
  
1. Objectives of the Digital Healthcare solution for Radiology and  High 
Acuity Care Area 
  
a) Total elimination of hardcopy of films needed for reporting in the Radiology 
Area.  
  
b) Integrate Critical Care Devices like Critital Care monitors, Ventilators etc. 
precent in High Acuity Care Areas 
  
c) Add clinical tools for the entire enterprise 
  
d) Reduction in waiting time of radiological report.  
  
e) Provide simultaneous consultation with physicians inside and outside the 
hospital (for registered and not registered patients).  
  
f) Improve the availability /accessibility of patient data [Radiology image 
reports).  
  
g) Optimum use of human resources through a decreased rework (repeats, and an 
improvement in operational efficiency) and optimal work flow  
  
h) Expand the scope of the PACS to High Acuity Care Areas so that Critial data 
can be recorded electronically and automoatically from HAC devices like 
Monitors, Ventilators etc.  
  
i) Integration of all imaging DICOM modalities and radiology reports (patient 
data) one to a reliable and accessible digital platform. The same platform should 
be expanded to High Acuity Care devices like monitors, ventilators  to 
automcatically take data and store on a single digital platform. All proposed 
Solutions shoudl be from the same OEM vendor. 
  
j) Build a Clinical repository for DICOM & Clinical data with electronic charting 
using a single Digital Healthcare Platform 
  
k) To integrate HIS, RIS, PACS and the CIS platform for a seamless data 
exchange platform. Integration should be dynamic and bi-directional.   
  
l) Performance of the solution should be consistent and 95% uptime of the  
working of the system should be ensured. 
  
2. Technical requirement for requested Digital Healthcare Solution  
  
System and Technical Requirements for Radiology Information System 
  


--- Page 13 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page13 
 
I. General Requirements  
  
a) RIS shall support all the standard Modules ie. Patient Registration, 
Appointment/Scheduling, 
Modality 
Worklist, 
Radiologist 
Worklist 
and 
Reporting.  
  
b) The system shall support scanning of hardcopy request forms and other 
documents and attach with a patient.  
  
c) The system shall be integrated with HIS. It shall be Dynamic and bi-
directional integration.  
  
d) System shall support workflow for radiology orders which do not require 
scheduling (ex. X-Rays).  
  
e) The patient consent forms should be able to be scanned and attached into the 
system  
  
f) The system shall have an ability to insert a flag for attention for an 
examination. The flag shall be visible in all various worklists. The user typed 
comments shall also be visible.  
  
g) The system shall support sticky notes function. The sticky notes shall open as 
popup when a scan is opened.  
  
h) The system shall provide instant messaging functionality for users to 
communicate via system.  
  
i) It should be possible to view the details of personnel involved with the Order 
ie. who created the order, who scheduled/rescheduled it, scanning technician, 
draft radiologists and final report signoff radiologist.  
  
j) If the hospital has EMR, the RIS shall be integrated with it so that with a click 
radiologists can see other details of the patient.  
  
k) The system shall provide the section where all standard documents related to 
operations, policies; standard forms can be uploaded and kept for users to access 
it.  
  
l) System shall support multiple department workflows where multiple 
department users can work without being able to access other department data. 
For ex. Front Office of one department shall not be able to schedule cases of 
other departments.  Cross department access shall be limited and shall be 
available only to limited users.  
  
m) System shall support setting up Master Data from the Admin interface ex. 
Procedures List, Reporting Templates.  
  
n) System shall support transfer of orders from one department to another.  
  
o) System shall support multiple user profiles which includes the following but 
not limited to  
  
1. Junior Resident  
  
2. Senior Resident  
  
3. Radiologist  
  
4. Transcriptionist  
  
5. Radiographer  
  
6. Patient Service clerk & supervisor  
  
7. Radiology Nurse  
  
8. Administrator  
  
p) The system shall allow creating user groups and assigning users to groups. It 
should allow managing access rights both at group and individual user level.  
  
II. Patient Registration & Service Request  
  
a) Shall allow Patient registration with few details as mandatory. System shall be 
able to use the Hospital generated Medical Record Number (UHID).  
  
b) System shall be able to pull the patient details from the hospital HIS.  
  
c) System shall allow marking Patient Arrival status in RIS.  
  
d) The system shall support Patient Merge workflow.  
  
e) System shall capture and display health alerts.  
  
f) Able to scan various consent forms ex. Request Form, Consent Forms,   


--- Page 14 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page14 
 
Pregnancy Declaration forms etc.  
g) The document scanner shall be integrated with RIS.  
  
h) The system should support Pre-vetting capabilities.  
  
i) The system should support ability to order orders which should be sent to HIS.    
j) Allow the creation of a protocolling worklist for radiographers or radiologists 
with options to select standard performing protocols and free text field to 
document additional performing instructions to radiographers or communications 
with clinicians that will be visible to the radiographer when performing the 
study.  
  
k) System should be able to audit and track protocolling workload per user.    
  
l) Support more than 1 level of vetting e.g.  Radiographer or trainee performs 
vetting and with option to send to Radiologist to verify.  
  
m) Support seamless paperless communication between clerk, radiologist and 
radiographer during the vetting process.  
  
n) Have a means to support rejection of requests sent for vetting.  
  
o) Requested procedures or Imaging Requests that need clarification can be 
flagged for follow-up from Request creation.  
  
p) List of Requested Procedures or ISRs.  
  
q) Able to filter by Date/Time, Modality, Priority, Patient Type, Medical Service, 
Referral Location, Patient Class.  
  
r) Option to search for list of Requested Procedures by Patient ID, Patient Name, 
exam order ID.  
  
s) Print out Porter Slip with information like Patient ID, Patient Location  
  
t) Ability to sort list by different fields and select specific fields for display.  
  
u) Choice of giving an appointment or starting the procedure from the request 
list. For example:  
  
1. For general Investigations, select procedure and start procedure. No need to 
book an appointment slot before starting the procedure.   
  
2. For specialized Investigations like CT or MRI, book appointment, indicate 
arrival of the patient on appointment day, generate bill and continue workflow.  
  
v) Able to restrict cancellation of confirmed/performed orders to defined, 
configurable users/group.    
  
w) The system should support printing of Radiology Request orders created in 
RIS or electronic radiology orders from EMR with relevant clinical and health 
information.  
  
III. Appointment / Scheduling  
  
a) Graphical representation of booking slots with comments and/or colour code 
showing reservation of slots for different types of procedures.  
  
b) Able to define slots in a room based on certain constraints e.g. urgent cases 
only, inpatient or outpatient. System should be able to use these constraints and 
rules to facilitate giving an appointment.  
  
c) Appointment diary to display available slots according to the procedure time. 
This improves utility of resource and eliminates waste gaps in appt time slots. 
Visually the schedulers can identify appointment time slots readily.  
  
a) Able to customize the number of booking slots available per day as duration of 
the procedures varies for different types of examinations. The system should 
allow reservation of appointment slots for specific procedures, by patient type 
(e.g. inpatient, outpatient), patient class, etc.  This should be easily visible to 
assist users in scheduling.    
  
b) Able to "suggest" an appropriate appointment date/time for patient based on 
certain rules and constraints, bypassing slots that do not meet the constraints for 
the patient.  
  
c) Ability to separate appointment resources by department  and yet enable cross-
checking and alert if patients have the same exam/other already performed in 
own/other department recently or already has an appointment made in different 
  


--- Page 15 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page15 
 
department  within a specified number of days.  
d) Able to alert and prompt alternative appointments for multi-exam procedures 
requiring more than one procedure rooms.  
  
e) Able to define specific appointment slots for viewing and scheduling for 
certain category of users. Able to restrict booking into certain appointment slots 
in the scheduling book.    
  
f) Able to control rights for overbooking to authorized users. Configurable in 
terms of resource allowed overbooking, number of overbooking & types of 
procedures, etc.    
  
IV. Patient Check-in and Order Creation  
  
a) Support mapping of a specific procedure to different service code base on 
patient type, referring location, facility, performing department, procedure code 
etc. Example:  
  
b) Able to assign unique numbers (accession and order numbers) to identify the 
procedures and provide the link of results/ to images in PACS.  
  
c) Able to trigger charge or credit transaction to billing system(s) upon order 
entry or cancel or replace procedure respectively using HL7 protocol for 
communication.  
  
d) Able to capture the reasons for cancellation of procedures or no charge 
procedures or waiver of professional fees for audit purpose.  
  
e) Produce sticky labels with patient, visit, billing code and order related 
information upon check-in or order entry:                
  
1. to show waiting/procedure room  
  
2. to display accession/order number for identifying procedures for modality 
worklist and reporting  
  
3. to paste on film envelope for film tracking and dispatching of films to GP 
referrals, non-resident patients, clinics, etc.  
  
f) System should have an easy way to do adhoc re-reprint of additional patient 
labels.  
  
  
  
V. Service Recording and Tech Module  
  
a) Filterable Worklist for scheduled/ordered procedures based on room, modality 
or location e.g waiting area. Able to configure fields and filters based on user 
preference. The system should have an option to save the user-defined worklist. 
Ability to print and export list.  
  
b) Be able to select multiple procedures from the worklist, and perform the same 
operation in one instance e.g start or complete procedure or assign reporting 
radiologist.  
  
c) Track procedure duration based on procedure start and complete times  
  
d) Track radiographer(s) who performed the procedure. Able to easily add 
additional operators.  
  
e) Track radiologist(s) who performed the procedure.   
  
f) Track other personnel‟s involved in the procedure e. g nurses, patient's care-
giver.  
  
g) Allow radiographers to enter technical comments for procedures performed to 
capture examination information e. g. Contrast usage, sequences performed, 
sonographic findings.  
  
h) Able to order/cancel/remove procedures. There should be a security object 
that controls cancellation of procedures that have been started or have images or 
reports.  
  
i) Exam status should include suspend and confirmed statuses or equivalent.  
  
j) Able to trigger messages to EMR/HIS for order/cancel/remove of procedures 
when applicable using HL7 protocol for communication  
  


--- Page 16 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page16 
 
k) MPPS from modality to RIS/PACS (including sequences) to plan 
examinations based on protocol.  
  
l) Reuse protocols from previous examinations when planning follow-up 
examinations at the same modality and for the same organ.  
  
m) To trigger a message to EMR/HIS upon examination started/completion.  
  
n) To alert referring clinicians through email or SMS upon examination 
completion if applicable.  
  
o) To allow radiographer to group/link 2 or more procedures to be reported 
together. Splitting of grouped procedures should also be possible prior to 
reporting.  
  
p) Allow radiographers to update reporting priority.  
  
VI. Reporting  
  
a) Able to import patient history into the Radiology report.  
  
b) An efficient way to assign a list of pending reporting tasks to a particular 
radiologist to report.  
  
c) Able to view at a glance outstanding reporting tasks based on each worklist 
eg. MRI (2) i. e. 2 MRIs not reported.  
  
d) Reporting templates and canned text should have both public and private 
options  
  
e) Standard word processing capabilities with spell checking function, formatting 
e.g. bold underline, italic and medical dictionary.  
  
g) Able to correct reports (alter original report text)  after final/verified i.e 
remove original content but with history of original versions kept (versioning).  
  
h) Able to amend reports after finalised/verified as addendum i.e additional text 
on top or bottom of original report but leaving the original report text untouched.  
  
i) Allow specification and flagging of levels of abnormal reports.  
  
j) Allow radiologist to alert referring clinicians for abnormal and amended report 
i.e., either through email  
  
k) Flexibility to control printing of preliminary and final reports.  
  
l) The printed radiology report should have the time stamp of when the report 
was printed.  
  
m) Option to automatically utilize pre-defined fields of data captured in the 
acquisition notes or technical comments (input by radiographer) to pre-populate 
to the radiology report.  
  
n) Cases reported by the resident should route to the radiologist's work-list for 
verification regardless of mode of report creation.  
  
o) Cases awaiting verification by the resident will auto-route to the radiologist's 
work-list for verification after user specified time frame.  
  
p) Allow more than one radiologist to verify a report (co-read).  
  
q) Able to track both the reporting and verification radiologist and easily 
determine the person that needs to verify the report or perform an action that will 
allow the report to be finalized.  
  
r) Able to print a verified radiology report with name(s) of reporting and 
verifying radiologists, date/time of verification in a format acceptable to the 
institution. If preliminary reports can be printed, specify if there are 
distinguishing factors that differentiate it from a verified report e. g a watermark.  
  
s) Allow to print a verified report on an adhoc basis.  
  
t) Able to distribute verified reports by sending of reports by email.  
  
u) Reporting module should have a lock feature that prevents radiologist from 
starting a report on an examination that has already been opened for reporting by 
another radiologist regardless of screen refresh.  
  


--- Page 17 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page17 
 
v) If reporting module supports viewing of more than 1 patient's images at a 
time, then the module should have a warning feature that alerts the radiologist if 
starting to report or saving / verifying a report for a procedure when another 
patient's images are opened for viewing; e. g. Patient 1 images and report editor 
are open for reporting. Patient 2 images are opened for a quick review with 
clinician without closing Patient 1 report editor and or images. Subsequent with 
patient 2 images still open, radiologist wishes to Save or Verify patient 1 images, 
warning message should appear.  
  
  
  
3. System and Technical Requirements for Enterprise Digital Healthcare 
Platform 
  
I. General Requirements  
  
The below mentioned specifications of each component of hardware and 
software are the minimum required. However, may quote an equivalent or 
advanced version that is commercially available or likely to be commercially 
available at the time of purchase. Further the compatibility of the quoted items 
with each other and with the existing system if any is an essential requirement.  
  
The vendor should take an overall responsibility of both the software and 
hardware components including all licenses for complete maintenance for time 
of warranty. It is the duty of the vendor to visit the site and study the existing 
workflow that can be utilized for their proposed solution and quote in the tender 
(if anything extra required) for the optimum and consistent functioning of the 
propsoed digital solution. 
  
It will be the responsibility of the vendor to demonstrate capabilities/functions 
quoted to the technical evaluation committee onsite if required.   
  
a) Fully integrated Digital Solution for Radiology and High Acuity Care devices 
  
b) Easily Deployable with simple web based interface.  
  
c) Multimodality connectivity, advanced work list, image processing tools with 
electronic charting for Clinical devices 
  
d) Should provide connectivity to Clinical devices like Critical care monitors, 
ventilators etc 
  
e) ZFP module allowing access of images remotely with all tools using low 
internet bandwidth.  
  
f) DICOM Film Print support.  
  
g) CD /DVD writing support with embedded DICOM viewer.  
  
h) Archiving Module.  
  
i) HIPAA & HL7 Compliant.  
  
j) Stat reads highlighted and automatically takes priority.  
  
k) Search criterion on various parameters like Patient ID, Name, Accession No, 
Date Hospital Name, Referring Physicians etc.  
  
l) Compressed image support for faster downloads.  
  
m) Prefect option to download priors automatically reducing waiting time for the 
radiologists.  
  
n) Ability to load different studies, side by side for comparison.  
  
o) PACS Solution should be Truly web based with all features like CD/DVD 
Writing, Film printing, Image viewer and Reporting module available through 
browser from any station. No installable software should be required to use these 
functions from any station.  
  
p) It should be possible to import images from external CD/DVD directly into 
the system without any external software/workstation.  
  
q) Report text search engine should be available.  
  
r) Should support DICOM MWL integration with all modalities. It should be 
possible to view the DSA images in the subtracted mode either in cine or photo 
file modes.   
  
s) Roaming profile – user definable settings.  
  


--- Page 18 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page18 
 
II. Image Processing Tools should be available in the Radiologist viewer  
  
a) Window / Level – Manual or Pre-sets.  
  
b) Image Scroll on Mouse.  
  
c) Pan and Zoom.  
  
d) Flip, Rotate, Invert.  
  
e) Crop – Elliptical, Rectangular or Freehand.  
  
f) Cross Reference Lines.  
  
g) Movie mode with speed control.  
  
h) Measurement: Linear, Angular, Cobbs Angle tool.  
  
i) Annotations like text, pointer, line etc.  
  
j) HU Value display – Point and average.  
  
k) Multi-frame image display support should be available  
  
l) Image display Matrix 1 x 1, 2 x 2, 3 x 3 etc.  
  
m) Series Display 1 x 1, 2 x 2, 3 x 3 etc.  
  
n) Image Linking – Interlink series for synchronized scrolling of images.  
  
o) Spine labeling tool – Automatically labels Vertebral Bodies or Disc space 
with just a mouse click.  
  
p) Magic Slice – Allows the radiologist to click on any part and see the 
corresponding slice.  
  
q) MIP, MPR, 3D, Volume Rendering tool is required for every Diagnostic user 
and it must be browser based. Volume render application should be from same 
PACS OEM.  
  
r) Curved Planar Reformats (CPR) tool is required for every Diagnostic user  
  
s) Automatic Image Registration and Fusion tool is required for every Diagnostic 
user  
  
t) Inbuilt chat module is required  
  
u) Image export to JPEG/BMP/TIFF formats  
  
v) Auto Edge detection on image   
  
w) Ability to create Key series/merge 2 studies/split a study  
  
x) Embedded MIP  
  
y) Embedded MPR  
  
z) Basic Measurements  
  
1. spine labeling  
  
2. cobb angle   
  
3. Leg length difference  
  
4. horizontal alignment  
  
5. vertical alignment  
  
III. Following Hanging Protocols Tools should be available in the viewer  
  
a) Provide easy access to a gallery of prepared hanging protocols from which the 
user can choose.  
  
b) Support the option to create hanging protocols by drag and drop actions.  
  
c) Support the functions to have both user and system level hanging protocols  
  
d) Upon opening a study, provide the correct hanging protocol should 
immediately be used to display the images. This automatic selection should be 
based on:  
  
1. body parts  
  
2. modality Types  
  
3. procedure codes  
  
e) Allow to create a display workflow based on hanging protocols. Each hanging 
protocol can contain one or more presentation groups and the user shall be able 
to easily and intuitively navigate through all presentation groups that are part of 
the hanging protocol. It shall be possible to have the system automatically select 
a correct hanging protocol and/or presentation group based on body part, 
modality type or procedure code  
  


--- Page 19 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page19 
 
f) Support the functionality to have dedicated hanging protocols for comparison 
of studies  
  
g) Allow the user to Interactively change the layout:  
  
1. viewport tiling  
  
2. full screen layout  
  
3. add/merge viewport  
  
h) Allow for dynamic hanging protocols where:  
  
1. the renderer (3D, MIP/MPR, …) can be changed in each viewport on the fly  
  
2. viewports can be added on the fly  
  
3. Images can be added by drag and drop from the clinical sidebar  
  
4. comparison with prior studies can be made  
  
i) Within the image area, provide a list of all studies for the active patient. This 
list should allow the user to select additional studies to display without the need 
for major mouse movements  
  
j) Support the creation and usage of Multi-modality hanging protocols  
  
k) Provide auto combine of series:  
  
1. US single frame  
  
2. CR/DX  
  
3. RF  
  
IV. Following features should be available in the ZFP Diagnostic viewer   
  
a) FDA Approved for Diagnostic Reading  
  
b) Basic Measurements  
  
1. Angle  
  
2. Distance  
  
3. Cobb Angle  
  
c) MIP  
  
d) MPR  
  
e) Multi Monitor Support  
  
f) Ability to see Images & Report  
  
g) The ZFP Client should NOT be showing the Thin Slice Data to the Clinicians 
when they login to the PACS 
  
h) But the ZFP Client should show all the Series data (Thick & Thin) to the 
Radiologist which are pushed to the PACS from the modality when the 
radiologist login to the PACS system 
  
i)  The ZFP viewer should be configred to display time-bound exams to the 
clinicians (ex. Exams for only last 6 months only without the thin slice sections) 
and this should be configurable   
  
j) The mentioned functionality in point g, h & I should also be available in the 
Mobility viewer for Radiologist & Clinicians 
  
k) Image data which is restricted to Clinicians can be made available to 
clinicians even if it is older than for example 6 months on adhoc basis post 
approval in the PACS system 
  
 Security 
40 concurrent 
user license 
·         All user access (ex. login, study access, report access) should be saved into 
database as AUDIT TRAIL and this should be accessible/searchable by 
Administrator 
150K per 
year 
·         Vendor will provide applicable antivirus Software for the various clinician 
and Radiology terminals. 
150K per 
year 
4. Software Licenses  
150K per 
year 
License requirement for RIS PACS Solution 
150K per 
year 
Unlimited Modality connectivity including for MRI, CT, PET, SPECT, NM, X   


--- Page 20 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page20 
 
Ray, US (as and when needed)  
RIS User Licenses (Reception/Technologists, Transcriptionist/Radiologist) for 
RIS Application  
  
150K Exams per year license for Radiology Viewer  
  
150K Exams per year license for Clinical ZFP FDA Diagnostic Approved 
Viewer with unlimited user license.  
150K per 
year 
150K Exams per year license for PACS VNA (Dicom)  
  
150K Exams per year license for Mobility Viewer on Tablet with unlimited user 
license for iPad/TAB viewing licenses 
  
3D post processing applications should be from the same OEM who is providing 
the PACS. Third party 3D post processing applications should not be quoted.  
2 concurrent 
user license 
3D post processing applications should have a common database with the PACS. 
There should be no saperate storage needed for the 3D post processing 
applications.   
2 concurrent 
user license 
The 3D post processing capability should be embedded inside the PACS viewer 
2 concurrent 
user license 
3D Post processing License for 150k Exams per year for and below application 
available on all Radiology Workstations 
 - Pre Processing 
 - Volume Rendering 
 - Auto Bone Removal 
 - Multi Modality Fusion 
2 concurrent 
user license 
Advanced 3D post processing Tools needed on Concurrent user basis which 
are embeded with PACS Viewer 
2 concurrent 
user license 
The 3D post processing capability should share the same Database as PACS 
and should not needs its own seprate storage 
2 concurrent 
user license 
Stroke Analysis Software 
2 concurrent 
user license 
Oncology Quantification Software including RESIST & WHO 
2 concurrent 
user license 
Lung Nodule Visualization and Analysis Software 
2 concurrent 
user license 
PET Lesion Management Software including RESIST, WHO  & Functional 
PERCIST 
2 concurrent 
user license 
Virtual Colonoscopy Software 
2 concurrent 
user license 
Extract CT angio data from CT Perfusion Exams 
2 concurrent 
user license 
MR Elastography Tools 
2 concurrent 
user license 
MR Tools for ADC, DTI, Spectroscopy and Fusion 
2 concurrent 
user license 
MR Multi Parameter imaging for Body and Breast 
2 concurrent 
user license 
MR Multi Parameter imaging for Brain 
  
CT Vessel analysis with automated real time tracking and labeling 
for 5 High 
Acuity Care 
Units in the 
Hospital 
MR Tools for Vessel assessment 
  
Cardiac anatomical, functional and perfusion information 
  
CT Perfusion for complete perfusion assessment for Multiple Organ 
  
CT Perfusion for complete perfusion assessment for Brain 
  
High Acuity Care Integration Software 
  
1. GENERAL: 
  


--- Page 21 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page21 
 
The system should be used to plan, implement, record, archive and analyze 
details of the patient care process in High Acuity Care Area of the Hospitals 
  
Support dynamic hyperlinks (www links) embedded to the application to open 
other applications with patient context such as imaging information systems or 
HIS without re-entering user ID or password. 
  
2. FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS: 
  
a. Ease of Use. 
  
The user must be able to make quick start of the system in case of emergency 
and not knowing the patient details. The quick start will start the default device 
data collection and prompt the user for patient group for choosing the right case 
configuration and protocols. 
  
Anaesthesia type specific graphical task lists for supporting anaesthesia 
workflow. 
  
The system should have the facility to flag 
  
(i) warning messages if information input does not conform to the input expected 
and 
  
(ii) inform the user that it cannot proceed if this mandatory field is not completed 
appropriately. 
  
The system must use drop down menus or similar to present to the users the valid 
choices for coded fields. These lists must be user definable. 
  
b. Look and Feel. 
  
The screens displaying clinical data must be clear and easy to look at, understand 
and tasks colour coded with finger operated touch screen. 
  
Data Entry Requirements – allow dropdown menus or lists, free text notes or 
comments, touch screen support , scroll wheel, alarm invalid dates and numbers, 
support data modifications and deletion of erroneous data, entry of progress 
notes displaying the authorship with the date and time of entry 
  
c. Automated Data Collection. 
  
Automated online data collection from patient monitors and ventilators, data 
displayed in real time graphically. 
  
It must be possible to automatically and simultaneously connect multiple devices 
to one patient including infusion pumps data (rate, volume, bolus dose). 
  
Support for device swapping during a case. 
  
Clinical staff should be able to rapidly disconnect or connect equipment to a 
patient without the need to power down any part of the equipment. 
  
The system should automatically detect connections and disconnections. 
  
It must be possible to manually enter all data fields, including those, which 
normally would be collected automatically. 
  
d. General Features. 
  
Possibility to view and edit several cases by one user in the same workstation. 
  
Capability to view data as a trend over time for the whole perioperative period. 
  
If a patient has had earlier procedures documented with the system, it should be 
possible to easily view their previous record(s). 
  
Records stored must be accessible by a variety of ways e.g. searches by hospital 
number, patient id, diagnosis coding, age, 
  
name, etc.  
  
Patient care information summary views, to get an overview. 
  
Support online automatic calculation of durations (e.g. anesthesia duration), drug 
and fluid totals and fluid balances. 
  
Support separation of drug and fluid totals and fluid balances according to phases 
(e.g. intraop, recovery) and support a combined summary of the totals and 
balances for the whole perioperative case. 
  
e. Patient Demographics. 
  


--- Page 22 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page22 
 
The system must be able to accept patient demographic data through an interface 
and to store it on the database to form the basis of the patient record. 
  
The supplier must indicate the minimum information required to admit a patient 
onto the system in an emergency and the 
  
system the system must allow preliminary and incomplete patient information to 
be updated when actual details become available 
  
The system must allow adding new patients and cases to the system manually. 
  
f. Laboratory Data. 
  
The system must provide the facility to store details of laboratory data results, 
either received through an interface or 
  
documented manually and arrival of new laboratory data should be visually 
signaled. 
  
g. Support searching for a drug or fluid. 
  
Displays the dosage administered of any drug used in the anesthesia period and 
maintain a continuous cumulative total of 
  
individual drugs. 
  
Support manual entry of all information associated with blood and blood 
products. 
  
Support automatic calculation of the correct dosage and rate of a continuous 
medication infusion. 
  
Document fluid output, hourly and cumulative. 
  
The system should provide access to a drug directory from which users can 
select a drug for prescription, or record a patient‟s medication on admission. This 
should be an existing reputable database, which is regularly updated. 
  
h. Alarms and Data Validation. 
  
It must be possible to enter unlimited notes and the authorship of these notes 
must be clearly displayed. 
  
i. Point of Care Printouts. 
  
It should be possible to save the reports in electronic format (e.g. PDF) and 
should be configurable. 
  
Point of care printouts must include (but are not limited to): patient lists, 
anesthesia plan, anesthesia consent, patient instructions, anesthesia record, lab 
tests requests and reports and recovery record. 
  
j. Configurability. 
  
List choices or similar data, default values, normal value ranges, data entry 
displays, point of care patient record printouts and patient list reports, 
retrospective statistical reports and colour codes must be configurable by the 
system administrator after initial setup and password protected. 
  
The tools for configuration must be an integral part of the system. 
  
It must be possible to see how a display or a printout looks like in the 
configuration tool (WYSIWYG). 
  
Archived patient records can be restored for reviewing and reprinting of the data. 
k. Statistical Report Generation with Reporting Tools. 
  
Data from different sources can be combined into the reports, e.g. data 
documented with the system and data from other information systems in the 
hospital. 
  
Provides ability to produce reports on demand and allows reports to be saved for 
future use. 
  
Provides on-line help functions without requiring the user to access a manual. 
3 
Supports basic statistical functions (count, sum, average, min & max). 
  
5. Hardware requirement for new Digital Healthcare Solution 
  
The proposed hardware should be deployed and configured in a virtualized 
environment using Vmware ESXi Hypervisor. Below mentioned architecture is 
provided for reference.  
  


--- Page 23 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page23 
 
1. PACS Workstation Diagnostic Monitor 4MP 30” Fusion display  
  
Fusion 4MP LED can be used as two seamless 2MP heads or one wide-screen 
6MP display. 
  
Screen technology TFT AM Color LCD Dual Domain IPS-Pro and LED 
backlight. 
  
Active screen size (diagonal) 772 mm (30.4) 
  
Pixel pitch 0.256 mm, color and grey scale imaging. 
  
Features to improve and maintain image quality such as Ambient light 
compensation, Uniform Luminance technology and I guard sensor 
  
Maximum Luminance 1050cd/m2, DICOM calibrated at 600cd/m2 with Contrast 
ratio of 1500:1. 
2 
Screen protection Protective, non-reflective glass cover 
  
Response time 18ms, Video input signals DVI-D Dual Link (2x), Display Port 
(2x) 
  
Display Card with support for 4 displays – Online QA software 
  
System should come with a touch pad and should have features like Spot view, 
dim view and profile setting function for Radiologist  
  
2. PACS Workstation Diagnostic Monitor 6MP 30” Fusion display 
  
Fusion 6MP LED can be used as two seamless 3MP heads or one wide-screen 
6MP display. 
  
Screen technology TFT AM Color LCD Dual Domain IPS-Pro and LED 
backlight. 
  
Active screen size (diagonal) 772 mm (30.4") 
  
Pixel pitch 0.1995 mm, color and grey scale imaging. 
  
Features to improve and maintain image quality such as Ambient light 
compensation, Uniform Luminance technology and I guard sensor  
  
Maximum Luminance 1050cd/m2, DICOM calibrated at 600cd/m2 with Contrast 
ratio of 1500:1. 
  
Screen protection Protective, non-reflective glass cover 
  
Response time 18ms, Video input signals DVI-D Dual Link (2x), Display Port 
(2x) 
1 
Display Card for proposed monitor 
  
 System should come with a touch pad and should have features like Spot view, 
dim view and profile setting function for Radiologist 
  
3. PACS Workstation Diagnostic Monitor 5.8MP Color Mammo display 
system  
  
Screen technology LCD  
  
5.8 MP (2100 x 2800 pixels), aspect ratio 3:4 for each display in portrait mode, 
3:2 overall 
  
Pixel pitch 0.1545 mm  
  
Backlight warranty 40,000 hours @ 500cd/m2. 
  
Features to improve and maintain image quality such as Ambient light 
compensation, Uniform Luminance technology and steady grey 
3 
Maximum Luminance 1000cd/m2, DICOM calibrated at 500cd/m2 with Contrast 
ratio of 1400:1. 
  
Screen protection Protective, non-reflective glass cover 
  
Response time 12.5ms, Video input signals DVI-D Dual Link, Display Port  
  
Display Card for proposed monitor 
  
4. PACS Workstation Diagnostic Monitor 2MP colour display  
  
Screen technology LED IPS-Pro. 
  
Active screen size (diagonal) 540 mm (21.3) 
  
Pixel pitch 0.27 mm, color and grey scale imaging. 
1 
Features to improve and maintain image quality such as Ambient light 
compensation, Uniform Luminance technology 
  


--- Page 24 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page24 
 
Maximum Luminance 800 cd/m2, DICOM calibrated at 500cd/m2 with Contrast 
ratio of 1400:1. 
  
Response time 10ms, Video input signals DVI-D (1x), Display Port (1x) 
  
Display Card for proposed monitor 
  
5. PACS Workstation Diagnostic Monitor 3MP colour display  
  
Screen technology TFT LCD IPS. 
  
Active screen size (diagonal) 540 mm (21.3) 
  
Pixel pitch 0.2109 mm, color and grey scale imaging. 
  
Features to improve and maintain image quality such as Ambient light 
compensation, Uniform Luminance technology  
10 
Maximum Luminance 900cd/m2, DICOM calibrated at 500cd/m2 with Contrast 
ratio of 1400:1. 
  
Screen protection Protective, non-reflective glass cover 
  
Response time 20ms, Video input signals DVI-D Dual Link, Display Port 
  
Display Card for proposed monitor 
  
  
  
6. PACS Workstation Clinical Monitor 21" display  
  
Screen technology TFT color LCD 
  
Active screen size (diagonal) 541 mm (21.3) 
  
Pixel pitch 0.270 mm, color and grey scale imaging. 
10 
Features to improve and maintain image quality such as Ambient light 
compensation 
  
Maximum Luminance 440cd/m2, DICOM calibrated at 250cd/m2 with Contrast 
ratio of 1500:1. 
  
Video input signals DVI-D, Display Port 
  
Display Card for proposed monitor 
  
7. PACS Workstation  
  
Model - DELL 7810 or equivalent 
  
CPU - One Processor - Intel E5-2637v3 
  
Cores per Process - 8 
  
Memory - 16 GB 
  
Hard drive - 512GB SSD or 1TB SATA 
  
NIC - 1GB 
  
Display Card - ATIW2100 
15 
Operating System - Windows 7 Professional 64 bit 
  
DVD - DVDRW media drive 
  
Power Supply - Single Power Supply 
  
Software License - Necessary software for integration 
  
  
5 
8. Desktop PCs 
  
Intel processor, 4GB RAM, 500 GB HDD, CD/ DVD 
  
20" Monitor, Keyboard, Mouse 
  
  
  
I. Specification for the  Healthcare Digital Solution Servers  
  
Servers  
  
Rack Server with Redundant Power Supply   
  
Dual Processor - Xeon 8 Core V4  
1 
64 GB RAM   
  
10x1.2 10K RPM SAS HDD with RAID-5 Support  
  
Quad Port PCI 1Gbps NIC  
  
Windows 2012 x64 R2 Standard Edition  
  
II. Specification for the  Healthcare Storage   
  
Configuration of Storage to be offered – Primary Storage  
1 
Storage with Dual Controller and Dual port FC/iSCSI connectivity per controller 
  


--- Page 25 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page25 
 
72x1.2TB 10K RPM SAS HDD with RAID-5 Support  
  
Dual Port 12 Gbps SAS Port  
  
12 Gbps Dual Port SAS Card for above Rack Servers  
  
III. Specification for the  Healthcare  Storage  
  
Configuration of Storage to be offered – DR Storage  
  
Storage with Dual Controller and Dual port FC/iSCSI connectivity per controller 
1 
24x4TB 7.2K RPM NL-SAS HDD with RAID-5 Support  
  
Dual Port 12 Gbps SAS Port  
  
12 Gbps Dual Port SAS Card for above Rack Servers  
  
CD/ DVD Publisher 
  
Rimage 7200 Cd/DVD 
  
Number of Recorders - 1/2 
  
External Output Bin Capacity - 100 
  
  
  
III. Reference Solution Architecture  
  
 
 
  
  
6. Terms and Conditions for proposed Healthcare Solutions 
  
1. The PACS application should be US FDA / CE certified (not more than 3/4 
years old) and fully scalable RIS-PACS system.  
  
a. Separate Certificate for Radiology Viewer of PACS  
  
b. Separate Certificate for Clinician Viewer (ZFP) of PACS  
  
c. Separate Certificate for RIS  
  
2. The system should have IHE certification.  
  
3. „PACS Solution should have been implemented for at least 250 sites either in 
India or globally which includes two or more 800+ bedded hospitals.‟ 
  
4.„Company should be present and operating in India for minimum 10 years or 
more.‟ 
  
5. The RIS-PACS vendor should have experience integrating the quoted solution 
to an HIS/ EHR solution for receiving orders and forming DMWL for 
modalities. It should integrate with the existing HIS solution present in the 
hospital. The solution should also have an ability to provide/ share the radiology 
reports based on parameters. List of minimum 10 such installations in India to be 
provided.  
  
6. In addition to the FDA certificate for RIS-PACS application, the vendor 
should offer US FDA certified Zero Footprint viewer capable of displaying full 
fidelity (diagnostic viewing) DICOM images. The viewer must allow image 
access from any device (computer, IPAD, Tab, etc) using standard browsers eg. 
Mozilla, Safari, Internet Explorer. ZFP should be FDA diagnostic approved.  
  
7. Vendor to provide PACS IHE Integration Statement for the proposed solution 
with supported Integration profiles as part of the bid.   
  
12. Warranty: Vendor should provide a solution with 3 year warranty and 
subsequently 2 years CMC 
  
13. Lowest bidder financially is decided based on the cost of the solution 
inclusive of warranty of 3 years 
  
14. All existing Radiology modalities should be linked to the proposed solution 
and vendor must ensure integration of any new radiological modality in future 
without any additional cost.   
  
7. Vendor Qualification Criteria  
  
Server 1 
Server 2 
Server 3 
Server 4 
Primary Storage 
(High 
Performance) 
Secondary Storage 
(DR Copy) 


--- Page 26 ---
Tender for PACS-RIS System                                                                                                        Admn/Tender/65/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page26 
 
a) The vendor should have a successful track of deploying PACS systems in the 
country. Vendor should be more than 10 years in PACS business in India 
  
b) The vendor should have installed and managed a RIS & PACS Site for more 
than 10 Years for at least two hospitals in India 
  
c) The vendor should have min installation base of 10 PACS systems with 
minimum 2 installations in more than 800+ Bed hospitals in India 
  
d) Vendor should have 2 sites in India with load equal or more than 200K cases 
per annum. 
  
e) Vendor should have done Enterprise PACS installation in India connecting 
minimum 4 hospitals/sites with the Central PACS. 
  
f) Financial qualification criteria   
  
1. Should be a registered company in the country for last 20 Years  
  
2. Should be doing a turnover of 500 Crore or more for last Financial Year  
2 
g. All the proposed IT solutions included in this tender should be from single 
OEM. Third party clinical OEM products cannot be quoted.  
4 
  
2 
  
4 
8. Turn Key for PACS Data Center 
As per room 
design 
a. 42 U Server rack with dual PDU 
4 
b. Switches with 48 port 100/1000 MBPS ports (preferably CISCO L2 Switches) 
  
c. UPS - 20 KVA with 15 mins battery back up 
  
d. Split AC or equivalent of 2 ton each 
  
g. Civil Work for floor (Raised Floor,conduits for network etc.) 
  
h. Furniture (Table, Chair, closet) 
1 
i. Finger based Biometric device 
As per room 
requirement 
j. On Site engineer for 1 year.  
1 
  
1 
  
1 
9. Turn Key for PACS Reporting Room 
50 
a. Furniture for diagnostic workstations (Tables & Chairs) for 10 raidiology 
workstations 
  
b. Networking for reporting room (2 network point of 1 GBPS per workstation) 
  
c. Switches - 48 Port 100/1000 Gbps switch 
  
d. Finger based Biometric device 
  
e. Music system for reporting room (Sony or equivalent) 
  
f. Electrical point with concealed wiring - 5 electrical points per workstation 
  
g. Ergonomic furniture for the reporting room including but not limited to high 
quality tables, mid back chairs, cove lighting, high quality gypsum false ceiling, 
exellenyt quality heavy duty doors, almirahs and lockers for doctors' use(kindly 
consult with the departmental team for any clarifications) 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


