--- Page 19 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ Neuro/194(I)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 19 
 
Specification for Intra-operative Neuro-monitoring System 
  Portable, laptop based Intra-operative 32 channel Neuro-monitoring system, with capability to monitor critical 
neural pathways during critical cranial and spinal surgeries. 
A. General System Specifications : The system should be : 
 
Should be USFDA & European CE Approved 
 
Should have 5 Years warranty  followed by 5 year CMC (wherever applicable) 
 
Complete range of accessories and disposables for all monitoring modalities with their Prices 
should be quoted /provided and will be freezed for whole warranty period. 
 
The system should be available for demonstration as per the requirement of user department. 
 
Onsite Training for OT personnel should be provided for 6 months at least/till they are trained. 
 
Provide list of  installations in reputed govt. institutes in India with performance record 
 
Copy of Catalogue should attached with photographs and dimensions of the instruments quoted. 
Soft copy should be searchable. 
 
All the instruments must be of single make to avoid adaptability issues 
 
Established neurological safety with system components  
 
Compliance statement should be given in a Tabulated & point wise manner. 
 
95% uptime guarantee is required. 
 
1 
Portable laptop-based system with Surgeon-directed and neurophysiologist-supported capabilities in 
one system 
2 
Adjustable parameters to perform neuro monitoring on pediatric patients. 
3 
Integrated remote monitoring capabilities 
4 
Electronic or hard copy screen shot storage 
5 
Electrosurgery Unit (ESU) interference muting 
6 
32 channel neurological monitoring for intraoperative and ICU applications. 
7 
Comprehensive EEG, EP and EMG monitoring with up to 32 independent channels. Up to 128 traces 
(64 per modality) can be displayed. 
8 
All EP modalities including SSEP, MEP, AEP, BAEP, VEP 
9 
Independent, high and low electrical stimulators for peripheral and direct nerve monitoring, 
extensive stimulus triggering including repetitive, non- repetitive, single pair and train. 
10 Should have Built-in pulse oximeter. 
11 Should have Biphasic stimulation for TcMEP 
12 Should have Free Running and Stimulated Triggered EMG 
13 Nerve Proximity  and Nerve Root test feature 
14 Pedicle Screw Integrity test feature 
15 TOF (Train of Four) feature 
16 Module for easy EMG & MEP testing from sterile field. 
17 Should have 2 DVR feeds 
18 Stimulators run all electrical modalities 
19    Data should be able to be saved manually or automatically as continuous EEG, free run EMG, 
triggered EMG, EMG audio(EMG audio should be able to be recorded and reviewed), updated 
averaged EP, screen snap shots and video. Previously saved data can be reviewed while monitoring.  
Data review should be locally or remotely via network, modem or internet. 
20 Standard test protocols should be provided and modifiable and saved by user. 
21 Hardware should be protected against faults. 
22 Reports can be automatically generated for every test and should contain all test information and 
additional user specified information. 
23 Theaccessories/ instrumentsshould be compatible with neuro monitoring system. 
 


--- Page 20 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ Neuro/194(I)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 20 
 
 
 
B. Mandatory features of the Surgeon-Directed Module: The operating surgeon should be able to start, operate 
and control the unit from the sterile field via a sterile probe with below features:  
1. 8-channel EMG, MEP, and Train of Four modalities 
2. 2-channel Pulse Oxymetery recording 
3. Automated report generation for pedicle screw stimulation 
4. The sterile probe’s multicolor LED indicates test results 
5. Multiple manual and triggered EMG modes of operation 
6. Audible and visual surgeon feedback 
7. The surgeon must be able to change parameters, select modalities, Receive acoustic and visual 
feedback and Stimulate nerves with the sterile probe.  
8. Buttons  the on sterile probe  should allow surgeon to increase or decrease current, change the 
monitoring test mode, and print reports 
C. Mandatory features of the Neurophysiologist-Supported Module: 
1. Simultaneous 32-channel EP (MEP, SSEP, VEP, BAEP, etc.), EMG, and EEG monitoring 
2. Built-in, fast-charge TCeMEP with double-train stimulation for monitoring in pediatric patients 
3. Slow charge TcMEP for pediatrics should allow pulse duration to be adjusted at >75 µs. 
4. 2-channel Pulse Ox capability 
5. Automated pedicle screw testing 
6. Surgeon’s microscope view 
7. Simultaneous multisite remote monitoring and review 
8. The Neurophysiologist-Supported Module Should Support below mentioned Nerve Proximity 
Test Screen 
a. Provides audio tone feedback indicating proximity to a nerve root 
b. Program automatically changes stimulation intensity while searching for an EMG 
response 
9. The Neurophysiologist-Supported Module Should Support below mentioned Screw Test 
capabilities 
a. Should quickly and automatically verify proper positioning of pedicle screws 
b. Simulation intensity  should automatically increase until a response is generated 
c. Algorithm  should confirm response to avoid false test results 
 
10. The Neurophysiologist-Supported Module Should have Nerve Root Test Screen 
a.  to locate and quantify the health of a nerve root 
b. Simulation intensity automatically increases until a response is generated. 
Acessorries-   
 These should be US FDA/ ECE Approved 
 Instruments should be black coated to avoid glare, and instruments wherever possible 
should be bayonet shape. 
 
 
The accessories should be compatible with Pedicle Access Probe/Ball-Tip Probewith Neuro 
Monitoring capability 


--- Page 21 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No. F.No.24/ Neuro/194(I)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 21 
 
 The Retractors should be suitable for user-friendly approaches to single- and multiple-level 
fusion procedures, with multiple modes of visualization—microscopes, loupes, and direct 
visualization. 
 Retractor should have ports for docking light cable which should be compatible with all 
major light source manufacturers. 
 Containers should be customized, from the manufacturer only and should be quoted in 
sufficient number- no loose instruments will be accepted. If the sterilization containers use 
microbial filters then latter should be made of reusable material like Teflon (suitable for at 
least 1000 cycles of sterilization)&not of disposable paper/textile type. 
 
1. Sequential dilators, diameters about 5 mm to 24 mm or similar - one set, color coding is 
required. 
2. Beveled / Angled, black finish, Stainless Tubular Retractors of diameters  approximately 14, 16, 
18, 20, 22,26 mm (or similar) and lengths between 3-9cm in increments of 1cm- one each 
3. Straight black coated retractor tubes with width 20-22 mm, length bet 4,6,8 cm or similar- one 
set 
4. Expandable tubular retractors of sizes 50mm, 60mm & 70mm or similar expandable using a tube 
opener (ensuring pedicle to pedicle  visibility of at least 4 cm)-  1 each. 
5. Tube opener for above- 1 each 
6. Half tube blades (right & left) of different length from 40mm to 80mm – one set of right blades 
and one of left blades. 
7. Blade opener- one each 
8. Wide  medio-lateral blades of 5 and 7cm to avoid muscle coming from lateral sides after 
expansion- 2 of each type 
9. Narrow medio-lateral blades of 5 and 7cm to avoid muscle coming from lateral sides after 
expansion- 2 of each type 
10. Black radiolucent blade with light attachment facility blade Midline- Right 4 – 8cm in  gradual 
increments – 1 set 
11. Black  radiolucent  blade  with light attachment facility midline -left  4 - 8 cm  in gradual 
increments – 1 set 
12. Nerve hook left-1 
13. Guidewire 2mm- 4 
14. Balltipprobe- surgeondirected ,1 flushtip and 2 balltipprobes 
15. OT Tableclampattachment- 1 
16.  Flexible arm Assembly-1 
17. Retractor rack-1 
18. Mediolateral rack -1 
19. Customizedsterilizationcontainerswithappropraitetraysforalltubes , retractorblades 
20. Accesories for performing needle EMG/MEP monitoring during surgeries eg needle electrodes 
plus any other acessory which is required for routine use during neuromonitring procedures- 
appropriate numberfor 50 cases. 
 
 
 
 
 


