--- Page 10 ---
Tender for ICU multipara monitor with central monitoring system, transport monitor/ module and HL7 
Admn/Tender/67/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
 
Annexure-I 
 
Required Quanitity-36 
1. Monitor should be completely modular with min 19” color capacitive LCD TFT display and 
Navigation through touch screen and knob both should be present. 
2. Monitor should display   ECG, SPO2, NIBP, Resp. 2 Temp,  4 IBP,& Sidestream/Microstream  
EtCO2  as standard feature 
3. Monitor should have Transport monitor cum module facility for monitor of ECG , SPO2, 
NIBP, 4 IBP , 2X Temp with each monitor  
4. Monitor should be upgradable with Cardiac output, PiCCO, BIS, NMT, AGM, EEGX4, 
ScVO2, & RM through External plug and play module. The monitor should be able to display 
at least 5 of these parameters simultaneously. Price should be quoted of each module separately 
5. Monitor should have capability of simultaneously monitoring of Min 12 channel of waveform. 
6. Monitor should be IT enabled for access to charting system. (HL7 compliant) 
7. Parameter description should be as below  
A. ECG  
- 
ECG: 3/5lead ECG;12-lead ECG data can be measured by standard lead placement 
- 
HR:15-350/min or broader,±1% or ±1 
- 
pacer detector: sync with the pacing signal 
- 
ST analysis , QT analysis and arrhythmia analysis 
B. Spo2 
- Should be supplied with masimo SET technology with respective sensors. 
- Should display digital value and plethysmography 
C. NIBP  
 
 
- By oscillometric principal of measurement with step wise deflation 
 
 
- Suitable for adult, pediatric, neonatal patients. 
 
 
- Should display systolic, diastolic, mean pressure in large easy to read display. 
 
 
- Should have manual/stat mode or automatic mode  
- Adjustable time intervals from 2-240 Minutes and adjustable alarm limits. 
D. IBPs – simultaneous monitoring of 4 IBP’s should be standard –  
- 
Range: max to 400 mmHg. 
E. Temperature – two temperature one core and second skin simultaneous monitoring 
- 
Range Max to 50 deg C 
F. EtCO2 – should be through Microstream/Sidestream method  
8. Monitor should have non-volatile graphic and tabular trending of all monitored parameters as 
standard for minimum 120 hrs. 
9. Monitor should have facility to record of 48 ECG full disclosure  
10. Monitor should be ready for interface with select model of equipment like anesthesia machine, 
ventilators, Syringe pump of reputed companies displaying ventilation parameters, trend, 
waveforms & loops. 
11. Monitor should have battery back up for 120 min  
12. System should have facility of Remote viewing of data of each monitor on Mobile / Laptop/ 
Desktop without using any special server.  
13. Monitor should have US FDA or European CE approved.  Certificate must be enclosed  
14. Six Central Stations: 
a. 22 inch touch screen display 
b. Minimum 16 beds view to be provided in each station 
c. UPS with 15min backup 
d. Dual display option (based on number of monitors to be connected) 
e. Networking cost to be included 
15. Scope of supply :  
a. 5 Lead ECG Cable – 2 no with Each Monitor. Please quote the rate of 10 lead cable 
also.  


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for ICU multipara monitor with central monitoring system, transport monitor/ module and HL7 
Admn/Tender/67/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
b. Adult spo2 sensor with intermittent cable – 02 no with each  
c. Pead Spo2 sensor with intermittent cable – 01 no with each  
d. Adult & Pead  NIBP cuff  
- 05 no with each  
e. Skin & Rectal Temp probe – 01 no each  
f. EtCO2 Water trap  – 10 no with each  
g. Sample Line – 10 no with each  
h. IBP Intermittent cable – 02 no with each  
i. IBP Disposable transducer – 10 no with each   
j. Wall Mount – 01 no with each  
 
16.  ICU Critical Care Charting Software Solution for ICU Beds 
System should have Critical Care Charting facility. It should be supplied with all hardware, 
software and networking cabling etc. which includes follows: 
a. Server with Dual 3GHZ Processor and 128 GB RAM and 8TB storage should be 
Quoted. 
b. Respective Vmware License, Windows Server License and MS SQL License should be 
Quoted. 
c. All in One Touch enabled Laptop with Trolley for every 4 ICU Beds: Intel Core i5 
Processor 8GB RAM and 120 GB Storage with WIFI and Windows Operating system 
d. Charting Software with following modules should be quoted:  
i. Medication Module,  
ii. Drug Ordering Module,  
iii. ICU Post Protocols, ICU General Protocols, MICU, SICU Protocols 
iv. Fluid summary charts 
v. Medication summary charts 
vi. Vitals charts 
vii. Labs data charts  
viii. Nursing Summary,  
ix. Data Completeness module 
x. Patient List 
e. Networking for each ICU Beds (2 Lan Ports at each ICU Bed) 
f. Integration cables should be included for the Ventilator, Syringe Pump and Patient 
Monitor for the respective ICU Beds. 
g. HL7 Module for the HIS/LIS Integration should be Quoted. 
h. WIFI Access Point to be provided in each ICU for WIFI Connectivity. 
17. Scope of Supply of Hardware: 
a. Server: 1 Number  
b. Laptop with Trolleys: 14 Number 
c. Connection BOX: 44 Numbers 
d. WIFI AP: 6 Numbers 
e. Switch: 4 Numbers 
f. Unit Price of Each item software and Hardware to be Quoted Separately. 
18. All components should be quote from the same manufacturer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


