--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Nu.Med./18/993/OT 
 
Page 18 of 41 
 
Annexure - I 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION PACS WORKFLOW SYSTEM 
 FOR NUCLEAR MEDICINE DEPAERMENT  
 
 
Special Conditions:- 
 
 1. General Product Qualification Criteria 
1. The PACS application should be US FDA and CE certified (not more than 4 years old) and 
fully scalable WS-PACS system.  
a. Separate FDA Certificate for Radiology/NM/Cardiology Viewer of PACS  
b. Separate FDA Certificate for Clinician Viewer (ZFP) of PACS  
c. Separate CE Certificate for Workflow Information System 
2. The system should have IHE certification and vendor should provide PACS IHE 
Integration Statement for the proposed solution with supported Integration profiles as part 
of the bid.  
3. ‘PACS Solution should have been implemented for at least 250 sites either in India or 
globally which includes two or more 800+ bedded hospitals in India 
4.‘Company should be present and operating in India for minimum 10 years or more.’ 
5. The WS (workflow system)-PACS vendor should have experience integrating the quoted 
solution to an HIS/ HER/LIS solution for receiving orders and forming DMWL for 
modalities. It should integrate with the existing HIS solution present in the hospital. The 
solution should also have an ability to provide/ share the radiology/NM/cardiology reports 
based on parameters. List of minimum 10 such installations in India to be provided.  
6. In addition to the FDA certificate for WS-PACS application, the vendor should offer US 
FDA certified Zero Footprint viewer capable of displaying full fidelity (diagnostic viewing) 
DICOM images. The viewer must allow image access from any device (computer, IPAD, Tab, 
etc) using standard browsers eg. Mozilla, Safari, Internet Explorer. ZFP should be FDA 
diagnostic approved.  
7. Vendor must offer VNA with XDS-I integration profiles for image archive along with PACS 
system. The vendor should offer associated software as required.   
8. The XDS registry & repository should be of the by same vendor who is providing WS 
PACS S/W. No freeware XDS registry/repository should be offered with the proposed 
upgrade solution.  
9. Non-Dicom data should be stored in native format only. Data format 
correction/conversion is not acceptable. This is in view of upgrading the existing solution to 
a Clinical Repository for Non-DICOM Data.  
10. Warranty: Vendor should provide a solution with 5 Year warranty 
11. Lowest bidder financially is decided based on the cost of the solution inclusive of 


--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Nu.Med./18/993/OT 
 
Page 19 of 41 
 
warranty of 5 years 
12. All existing Radiology, cardiology& Nuclear Medicine modalities should be linked to the 
proposed solution and vendor must ensure integration of any new radiology/NM/cardiology 
modality in future without any additional cost.   
13. Necessary software Updated for the proposed applications software need to be provided 
as along as system is in warranty or CMC (Total 10 yrs). This is a mandatory requirement. 
14. Onsite engineer 24 x 365 days for 1 years for which the expenditure incurred in paying 
salary, accommodationetc will be borne by the vendor.  
 
 


