--- Page 17 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Paedia S./17/123/OT 
 
Page 17 of 20 
 
Annexure I 
Specification of Patient Warming System for Paediatric Surgery  
1. Should be suitable for intra-operative applications. 
2. Should consist of actively warming operating table pad for comprehensive intra 
operative thermal management. 
3. Should provide even distribution of warmth over the entire surface. 
4. Size Segment approx 40 cm x 90 cm. 
5. Control unit should be capable of warming minimum four warming blanket / 
segments at a time.   
6. Control unit should have Color TFT touch screen for easy operation.  
7. Control unit should have touch screen display to select & display temperature of all 
segments at a time. 
8. Control unit should automatically detect the number of segments which are 
connected to the unit and display the same on the screen. 
9. Should offer precise digital temperature control with selectable temperature range 
of 30 to 39ยบ C in steps of  0.1ยบC 
10. Should have facility to measure & display the real time core body temperature of 
the patient continuously on the screen.  
11. Should also have on screen graphical display of patient body temperature for the 
entire duration of surgery.  
12. Should have facility to independently adjust the temperature of individual segment. 
13. Should have a provision to connect whole body blanket, intra operative warming 
segments, pediatric size blanket, to the same control unit for future requirement. 
14. Should have safety features such as Automatic check, Precise temperature control 
between warming system and patient, Autostop on detecting any problem.  
15. Should have non latex anti-bacterially coated, blood and fluid Resistant, washable 
and replaceable reusable covers. 
16. The control unit should be light weight and small in size, easily attachable to IV 
rod/OT table with fixing claw. 
17. Should have low energy consumption and noiseless operation. 
18. Should confirm to international Quality and safety standards including Indian 
Standard(BIS)/European CE, European Directive 93/42/EEC. 
19. Five years warranty. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


