--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/ANAT/18/64(1)/OT 
 
Page 18 of 21 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical Specifications for Full Body Inertial 3D suit for real time motion 
capture system 
1. 
Full Body Real time movement Capture is required for Capturing yogic posture  
through advance inertial sensor technology   Biomechanics fields and should 
comply with following generic technical specification: 
2. 
System should be capable of measuring (i) Rigid body tracking, Basic gait, 
Individual joint analysis (ankles, knees, hips, back segments, neck, shoulders, 
elbows). Full single leg (pelvis-foot), Full single arm (shoulder to hand). Two-fold 
joint analysis (left and right simultaneous analysis of ankles, knees, hips, 
shoulders, wrists). Full spine (pelvis-neck). (ii) Simple upper body tracking and 
analysis, Gait analysis (pelvis, both hips and both knees). 
3. 
The system should operate on a standard Wi-Fi protocol (2.4GHz and 5GHz). 
4. 
Sampling frequency is selectable by the user and can range 20 Hertz up to 400 
Hz. 
5. 
Should have about 17 orientation sensors have provision to work all the sensor 
at 400 Hz.  
6. 
Should have provision for measurements of time-stamped automatically in 
order to guarantee an actual synchronization and should have accuracy - 
Pitch/roll<0.5degrees and Heading < 1.0 degrees 
7. 
System should be integrated and synchronize with HD video camera. 
8. 
System should have provision for automatically generated a report with the 
results of the analysis. And template for that report can be edited easily by the 
user. 
9. 
System software should have facility for 3d visualization in real time, 
Biofeedback rule editor, to Create your own lists of real-time events with 
visual/audio feedback. 
10. 
System should be capable to interface with EMG system. 
11. 
Software should also be able to capture movement by placing sensors on or 
near each body joint. As joints move, the positions between sensors are 
recorded in software, which analyzes angles, velocities, accelerations, and 
impulses to create a digital movement map. A radio should transmit this data to 
a receiver, where it is mapped to a skeleton that can be visualized in real-time. 
Software should have following technical specification  
• Kinematics Skeleton Software,• Easily record motion capture data 
• Export to *.BVH format, • Real time visualization, playback and editing of 
motion capture data 
• Unlimited capture volume • Should have Short setup time (7min.) 
• Should have lesser post-processing time 
12. 
System should be of international standard. 
 
 
 
 
 


