--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/BB/19/48/OT/B 
 
Page 19 of 22 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
 
Technical specifications for Multi Functional Therapeutic Apheresis System  
1 
The Multi Functional Therapeutic Apheresis System (MFTAS) should have facility for 
collection of following blood components and therapeutic procedures: 
a 
Leukoreduced platelets alongwith concurrent plasma collection. 
B 
Plasma collection. 
C 
Therapeutic plasma exchange. 
D 
RBC exchange. 
E 
Collection of peripheral blood stem cells. 
F 
Granulocytes. 
G  Therapeutic Plasma Treatment with adsorption columns. 
2 
Fully automatic, microprocessor controlled and continuous flow separation during both single 
and double venous access. 
3 
Have help screen/monitor which can be folded down to enable safe and convenient movement 
of the equipment to different wards for bedside procedures, have trouble shooting menu, 
alphanumeric display and extended memory for special procedures and research protocols. 
4 
Have simple data entry, enabling operator to enter data directly without manual calculations. 
5 
Able to perform priming with normal saline or with mixture anticoagulant and self-test as part 
of donor safety. 
6 
In case of inlet/return line occlusion, machine should be able to alert the operator. 
7 
Have provision for saline re-infusion to donor/patient. 
8 
Extracorporeal volume should not be more than 200ml. 
9 
Be able to regulate and display anticoagulant delivery, should not have bolus return of blood to 
ensure reduced citrate reaction for donor safety and comfort. 
10 Have a data port to be connected to a printer and the existing Hospital Information System 
(HIS). 
11 Equipped with inline UPS compatible to complete one cycle in case of power failure (at least 1 
hour backup). Provision for UPS is mandatory with the equipment. 
12 Have automatic door lock, audiovisual alarms for centrifuge imbalance and improper kit loading 
and door opened. 
13 Have Automated Interface Management system for efficient removal of plasma and cellular 
elements.  Interface detector should be able to continuously monitor the collection line to avoid 
any unwanted cellular contamination during each protocol. 
14 Have inbuilt sensors for humidity, temperature so as to detect any leaks or prevent over heating 
of blood during the procedure. 
15 Automatic and manual process management for all protocols. 
16 Have the option of temporarily halting and restart of the procedure, in case of donor discomfort 
during run. 
17 Have ramping anticoagulant ratio facility with flag off sign in case of higher ACD rate 
permissible according to the weight & height of the donor. 
18 Have automated kit loading facility with minimal operator intervention. 
19 The firm should supply 10 apheresis kits initially with the equipment for training and 
standardization at the time of installation. 
20 Power input to be 220-240 V AC, 50 Hz. 
21 Conform to standards for electrical safety IEC 60601/IS 13450. 
22 US FDA/CE/BIS certification is required for the equipment and consumables kits. 
23 Certificate of calibration and Inspection from the manufacturer. 
24 Comprehensive training for staff till familiarity with the system. 
25 Accessories and spare parts should be clearly mentioned and price of each item should be 
quoted in the price bid. 


--- Page 20 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/BB/19/48/OT/B 
 
Page 20 of 22 
 
26 Log books with instructions for daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly – Maintenance checklist 
should be supplied. 
27 User Technical/Maintenance manuals to be supplied in English. 
28 
Warranty for five years. 
29 
Comprehensive Maintenance contract for five years after the expiry of warranty and should include 
maintenance, calibration (6 monthly) and replacement of each and every defective part of the equipment. 
30 
Should have local distributor for regular supply of all kinds of kits required for the equipment.  
31 
Rate for kits including Single Donor Platelet kit (300 Nos), Therapeutic Plasma Exchange kit (100 Nos), 
Peripheral stem cell collection kit (50 Nos.)  per year will be considered for price comparative and the 
rate of the same will be frozen for next seven years. 
32 
Original literature of the quoted model should be supplied. 
33 
A certificate statement on the company letter head/Notary statement that the product quoted is the latest 
in the international market with latest technology update within the last 5 years. 
 
Instructions for Online Bid Submission: 
The bidders are required to submit soft copies of their bids electronically on the CPP 
Portal, using valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions given below are 
meant to assist the bidders in registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in 
accordance with the requirements and submitting their bids online on the CPP Portal.  
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained 
at: https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. 
REGISTRATION 
1) Bidders are required to enroll on the e-Procurement module of the Central Public 
Procurement Portal (URL: https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on 
the link “Online bidder Enrolment” on the CPP Portal which is free of charge. 
2) As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique 
username and assign a password for their accounts.  
3) Bidders are advised to register their valid email address and mobile numbers as 
part of the registration process. These would be used for any communication 
from the CPP Portal.  
4) Upon enrolment, the bidders will be required to register their valid Digital 
Signature Certificate  (Class II or Class III Certificates with signing key usage) 
issued by any Certifying Authority recognized by CCA India (e.g. Sify/nCode / 
eMudhra etc.), with their profile. 
5) Only one valid DSC should be registered by a bidder. Please note that the bidders 
are responsible to ensure that they do not lend their DSC’s to others which may 
lead to misuse. 
6) Bidder then logs in to the site through the secured log-in by entering their user 
ID / password and the password of the DSC / e-Token. 
 
SEARCHING FOR TENDER DOCUMENTS  
1) There are various search options built in the CPP Portal, to facilitate bidders to 
search active tenders by several parameters. These parameters could include 
Tender ID, Organization Name, Location, Date, Value, etc. There is also an option 
of advanced search for tenders, wherein the bidders may combine a number of 
search parameters such as Organization Name, Form of Contract, Location, Date, 
Other keywords etc. to search for a tender published on the CPP Portal.  


