--- Page 45 ---
                                                                  
                                       Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/NEURO and Burn plastic/277/GTE 
 
45
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – VII  
                 Specification for Surgical Operating Microscope 
Technical specification for procurement of Surgical Operating Microscope  
 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. Warranty: 5 years against  manufacturing defect  
2. All instruments should be corrosion resistant, autoclavable, BIS/European CE certified / USFDA 
approved. 
3. Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ quotation clearly marking 
the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. All the components of item under a particular serial no. will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the firms. 
6. L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central government hospitals 
like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of satisfactory working from the concerned 
government hospital. 
 
Specifications for Surgical Microscope 
1. Working distance: 
 
200-620 mm or better, continuously variable through motorized multifocal lens, activated through 
Handgrips and through control panel. Manually adjustable override. 
2. Magnification range: 
 
Maximum magnification of the microscope should be at least 18x (Without additional multiplier)or more 
must be controlled by motorized handgripand through control panel. Should have Manually adjustable 
override. 
3. Focusing:  
Motorized via multifocal lens activated through Hand Grip & Touch screen control panel. Manually 
adjustable override.The system must provide automatic focusing with single button press. 
4.Binocular tube: 
 
Main Surgeon Binocular Tube should be Tiltable binocular tube 0 to 180 degree   or better with 12.5x 
/10x widefield eyepieces with dioptric setting +5D to -8D 
5.Light Source: 
 
Xenon illumination with integrated Xenon back-up with fast automatic action lamp Change over or 
better. 
6. Illumination Field Diameter:  
Should have built in automatic zoom-synchronized illumination field diameter, with manual override 
and reset feature. 
7. Automated illuminationcontrol: 
 
Should 
have 
Automated 
Illumination. 
Brightness 
control 
should 
be 
linked 
to 
working 
distance.Illumination also can be controlled by hand switch or foot switch. 
 
 
 


--- Page 46 ---
                                                                  
                                       Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/NEURO and Burn plastic/277/GTE 
 
46
 
 
 
8. Handgrip:  
Microscope handgrip should have facility to control Motorized Focus, Motorized Zoom, Illumination, 
Video & Photo recording & Magnetic clutches for all 6-axismovement. 
9. Face to Face Attachment: 
 
Microscope should have Symmetrically configured face to face attachment with binocular tube 0 to 180 
degree   or better with Eye piece 10x or 12.5x magnetic wide field eyepiece with integrated eye cups, for 
& diopter correction of  +5D to -8D 
10. Balancing: 
 
The system must provide a one touch automatic balancing of all system axes without any manual  
Interaction or axis adjustments. 
11. Suspension system:  
Counterbalance suspension system or better for overhead clearance design. 
12. Stereo co observer: 
Microscope should have stereo co observation attachment for side assistant with 360⁰ rotatable 
binocular systems and 10x eyepieces with diopter correction must be +5D to -8D range. 
13. Integrated Medical grade HD Chain  
Fully Integrated 3 chip-HD Medical Grade Video Camera (Camera not Visible from outside) 
So that maximum resolution will display &record.((external/attachable camera will not be considered). 
Full HD inbuilt video recording system with integrated HDD of at least 1TB (Recorder should not be 
visible from outside &external/attachable recorder will not be considered).Recording Control& Photo 
facility  should be there in programmable  Microscope Handgrip. Additional hard drive 2TB (2 no.s) 
14. Display: 
 
Full HD 24" or more Medical grade touch screen display system attached with the microscope system.  
(No External Monitor/detachable monitor will be acceptable) 
15. XY Movement:  
For precise positioning of the microscope, the system must offer a motorized curvilinear XY movement. 
16. HD Video-In 
Microscope should have HD Video-In facility connect an external HD signal (e.g. Endoscopic/CT /MRI 
image)  
to the system and display the external images on the system 
17. Damping Correction: 
System should have robotic control active vibration damping mechanism to avoid disturbing vibrations.  
 
18 Microscope must be BIS/CE/US FDA Approved. 
 
19. System should be provided with 30No drape with Automatic vacuum lock technology. To eliminate 
guesswork and complexity; For an effortless and simple self-locking mechanism with Integrated RFID 
chip: for easy activation 
 
20. Microscope should offer remote customer services. Connectivity should add secure remote services. 
 
A. Microscope must have module for Up gradation to fluorescence 
  
21. System should be provided with a external monitor of screen size 55 inches or more. 


