--- Page 21 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Patho/20/35/OT/ 
   
Page 21 of 24 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical Specification for Tissue Embedding System 
1. Instrument should be microprocessor controlled two piece tissue embedding 
system consisting of heated paraffin station and separate cold plate. 
2. Instrument should have minimum 4 liters paraffin reservoir with temperature 
setting range from 500C to 70◦ C in 1◦ increments. 
3. Instrument should have at least 6 inch LCD touch screen display with integrated 
capacitive touch keys. 
4. Instrument should have facility for the paraffin flow to be activated by means of a 
height-adjustable, pivotable clip- activated either manually by pushing or via a 
foot switch with controllable flow rate. 
5. Instrument should have working start time and end time settings and weekly 
working days setting with real time setting. 
6. Instrument should have continuously adjustable paraffin flow rate with 
rectangular shaped peltier cooling unit/ integrated cold spot in front of the nozzle. 
7. Instrument should have rapid heating functions for quicker heating of paraffin 
wax in case of emergencies. 
8. Instrument should have facility of error message for operation condition 
monitoring. 
9. Instrument should have optimum illumination of the working surface by LED 
lamp, controlled by the key on LCD control panel. 
10. Instrument should have large heated working surface and integrated mold tray 
and cassette bath with temperature adjustment from 50 to 70◦C in 5◦increments. 
11. Instrument should have cassette bath and mold tray should be interchangeable to 
accommodate changes in embedding work flow. 
12. Instrument should be programmable for weekly timer, work days, work starting 
time, work end time, real time and day of week for automatic switch on and off of 
the instrument. 
13. Instrument should have cold plate of a constant temperature of -6◦C to hold up to 
70-80 standard cassettes. 
14. Instrument should have large peltier element cold spot to assist tissue orientation. 
15. Instrument should have adjustable work surface height for optimum ergonomics. 
16. Instrument should have two heated removable waste tray & heated removable 
forceps 6 nos. holder easily accessible from either side. 
17. The instrument should have EC or US –FDA registration or CSA Certificate or be 
BIS approved. 
18. Accessories such as a magnifier, embedding rings pack of 1000, stainless steel 
embedding molds 24 x 24 x 5 mm-12 qty, stainless steel embedding molds 24 x 


--- Page 22 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Patho/20/35/OT/ 
   
Page 22 of 24 
 
30 x 5 mm-12 qty, stainless steel embedding molds 24 x 24 x 12 mm-12 qty 
should be provided along with the instrument. 
19. Appropriate work bench/ stand should be provided for the instrument. 
20. UPS backup for processing of one cycle should be provided. 
21. The calibration of the instrument should be performed at the time of installation 
and certificates should be provided. 
22. Support for induction and follow up training of technical staff, on-site 
standardization and troubleshooting of procedures/ tests to be provided by the 
company. 
23. Document supporting track record and satisfactory performance from institutes of 
national importance (minimum one) should be provided. 
24. Instrument should have warranty of 5 years; 5 years CMC rates should be quoted 
separately after expiry of warranty period. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


