--- Page 45 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/ICP/244/GTE 
 
45
 
 
 
 
 
    
  SECTION – VII  
ANNEXURE-I 
 
ICP Monitoring system (ICP Express IEC 230V) with standard accessories 
Technical Specification  
 Latest technology digital Intra Cranial Pressure Monitor 
 Simple setup with operation prompts for user instructions, zeroing and calibration 
 Monitor should provide a continuous digital display of systolic, diastolic and mean ICP 
 It should be compatible with standard monitors to provide waveform display of ICP and various 
pressure wave patterns  
 Rechargeable 3-hour battery operation for patient transport 
 Audible and visual low-battery alert functions 
 User-programmable mean ICP alarms  
 Two-minute alarm suspend function  
 Adjustable LCD lighting display 
 Integral pole clamp 
 Should supply following standard consumable accessories with each machine:  
o 
Parenchymal access kit: I set 
o 
Reusable micro-sensor transducer cable: I set 
 Manuals: One set of operator & service manuals with each machine. 
 Should be able to provide training of all healthcare personnel during first 1 month of installation in the 
group of 5 trainees per session. 
 Onsite physical demonstration of the machine with all standard actual accessories of the same makes 
which the firm intends to supply will be mandatory if demanded by the technical committee.  
The monitor with all the accessories has to be left in the unit for demonstration on real patients for at least 7 
days. 
                Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
S. 
No. 
Item Description as 
per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item Description 
offered by Firm 
Deviation 
if any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. Warranty: 5 years against  manufacturing defect  
2. All instruments should be corrosion resistant, autoclavable, BIS/European CE certified/ USFDA 
approved. 
3. All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ quotation clearly marking the 
Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
4. All the components of item  under a particular serial no. will be purchased together from a single 
vendor Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the firms: 
5. L-1 will be decided on total value only  
6. All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed government hospitals like 
AIIMS/ PGI/ and should submit a certificate of satisfactory working from the concerned government 
hospital. 


