--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Electrophysiological test unit for ERG, VEP and EOG                                                          
Admn/Tender/35/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Electroph
ysiological 
test unit 
for ERG, 
VEP and 
EOG   
1. Multiple function system for all types of ERG, VEP, EOG  
2. Automatic recording and Processing of Multi focal and Conventional 
ERG and VEP data  
3. Topographic analysis of response densities, peak implicit times using 
comparison with normal reference data.  
4. Fast, low-resolution tests for screening, high resolution test for precise 
localization of dysfunction.  
5. Effective elimination of blink and eye movement artifacts without test 
prolongation.  
6. First and higher order response analysis.  
7. Quality control: Fixation control though infrared eye with / without 
fundus monitoring recording with fixation artefact rejection  
8. High brightness high resolution stimulus displays  
9. 4-5 channel Amplifier and filter settings remote controlled by the 
selected recording protocol.  
10. Inter ocular comparison of mfVEP records.  
11. mfVEP and mfERG test should be essential integral part of the Electro 
Physiology unit.  
12 mfVEP testing of both eyes by means of dichoptic stimulation.  
13. ISCEV protocols for conventional ERG and VEP recording and 
possibility also to have the advanced / Extended and Draft ISCEV 
protocols  
14. Special mfERG recording and analysis protocols enhance response 
contributions from the inner retina and ganglion cells.  
15. Ganzfled should be for adult and pediatric use and seperate BABY 
flash for infant  
16. EOG test and analysis  
17. Visual Acuity test  
18. S Cone ERG testing and analysis  
19. Dark Adaptometry test / Pupillometer  
20. Contrast sensitivity test / Nystagmography test / FST  
21. Colour Printer  
22. Motorized table for both Ganzfled and Monitor  
23. Accessories  
A. Electrodes — EEG Reusable Cup Electrodes set with sockets  
B. ERG-Jet Eletrode  
C. DTL Electrode with Connection Cables  
D. TEN 20 Conductive and Adhesive Pastes  
E. NuPrep Gel for Skin Preparation 
01 


