--- Page 41 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/CRDO/20/15/GTE 
Page 41 of 60 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL  SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Intravascular Ultrasound (IVUS) and 
Fractional Flow Reserve with IFR and Coregistration 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. Warranty: 5 years against  manufacturing defect  
2. All instruments should be corrosion resistant, autoclavable, BIS/European CE certified / USFDA 
approved. 
3. Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ quotation clearly marking the 
Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. All the components of item under a particular serial no. will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the firms. 
6. L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central government hospitals 
like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of satisfactory working from the concerned 
government hospital. 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR “INTRAVASCULAR ULTRASOUND (IVUS) and 
FRACTIONAL FLOW RESERVE WITH IFR AND COREGISTRATION”   
1. The system should be the latest generation digital Intra-vascular ultrasound for 360° image evaluation 
of coronary lumen.   
2. Should be a Windows based system capable of accepting phased array transducer technology.  
3. Should be DICOM-3 compatible.  
4. Should have DICOM storage to CD-R and hospital network compatible.  
5. Archiving options of CD ROM, 16X DVD, Removable hard disc and network.  
6. Should be accompanied with Flat Panel LCD display of >18’’ high quality monitor with keyboard, 
track ball and mouse.  
7. Data entry should be possible by key board and or touch screen.  
8. Should come with a storage capacity of >50 cases patient data with minimum 30Gb hard disk and 25 
clinical case storage, with an option of removable storage.  
9. Should have ECG input on screen.  
10. Digital frame grabber.  
11. Multiple image screen format.   
12. Availability of automatic and manual measurement of all essential; parameters like diameter and areas 
Multi screen format for comparison with prior measurements should be available.  
13. Digital video loop storage: up to 8 minutes with still frames (JPEG) with full editing capabilities 
including offline editing.  
14. Should have automatic border detection, both lumen and vessel.  
15. Should have on line 2D longitudinal display and measurements (seen as longitudinal cut section of the 
artery) as well as cross sectional imaging.  
16. Sterile field control option.  
17. Should be compatible to be integrated to existing Cath lab system.  
18. Should have the advanced feature like virtual Histology. Colour Map overlay to visualize tissue type 
(Fibrotic, Lipidic, Necrotic and calcified) as well as improved work flow design.  
19. Area & length measurement graphics in the cross sectional and longitudinal view images.  
20. Maximum number of area measurements per cross section image for better imaging Minimum-2.  
21. Maximum number of distance measurements per cross section image for better imaging, Minimum-4.  


--- Page 42 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/CRDO/20/15/GTE 
Page 42 of 60 
 
22. Coronary IVUS catheter with compatibility to both Rotating mechanical catheter & phased array 
catheter  
23. Dynamic review features (blood flow, plaque morphology, dissections and stent apposition).  
24. Should come with inbuilt FFR & IFR for physiologic assessment of borderline lesion.  
25. Archiving options CD ROM, 16X DVD, Removable Hard disc and Network  
26. Automated vessel and lumen measurement/detection with manual correction option.  
27. Should come with latest IVUS co-registration feature. 
28. Should come with latest IFR co-registration feature.  
29. DICOM storage & Image formatting.  
30. Should have a latest generation processor (i7 or above) computer with minimum 21-inch monitor, a 
wireless keyboard, and a wireless mouse with latest antivirus software. 
31. Multiple image Screen format. 
32. Automatic and Manual pull back options.  
33. Should have ECG display on Screen.  
34. Should come with Automatic pull back device.  
35. Should be provided with inbuilt printer for IVUS images.  
36. Clinical support for Training of staff.  
37. Technical back up for maintenance of machine.  
38. Prices of all accessories like pullback device, IVUS catheter, guidewire etc, to be quoted separately for 
future purchase.  
39. Prices of the should freeze for at latest three year from the time of installation.  
40. The same machine must have been installed in India earlier and its satisfactory work certificate has to 
be attached.  
41. Manufacturing company has to give undertaking regarding maintenance of the systems and availability 
of accessories and spare parts for next ten years.   
42. Latest authorization certificate in original should be attached with the quotation, failing which their 
tender application will be rejected. Photocopy/Xerox copy of authorization certificate will not be 
accepted.  
43. The machine should come with required UPS and should be compatible with standard Indian electrical 
sockets.  
44. It should have standard electrical safety norms.  
45. Input Power: 200-240 V AC and 50/60 HZ  
46. Accessories : 
o Reusable Pullback device (1 Nos.)  
o Colour printer (01 No.) 
o CD/DVD writer built – in 
o IVUS Catheter -10 nos   
47. Warranty should be 5 years and thereafter 5 year CMC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


