--- Page 39 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/PM/197/2024/GTE 
39 
 
Section –VII 
Technical Specification of “Sweat Chloride Collection and Estimation Equipment ” 
Specification 
1. Portable battery-operated point-of-care device for sweat chloride estimation 
2. Should operate on principles of Pilocarpine iontophoresis for sweat induction  
3. Pilocarpine should be supplied as pre-dosage ready-to-use discs. 
4. Should be supplied with all essential items and the latest software to run the equipment 
5. Device is to be supplied with small, medium, and large attachment straps (Two each). 
6. It should include test kits for ninety sweat chloride estimation. 
7. The rate contract for the kit/consumables must be mentioned separately, and the rate of the 
consumables must be fixed for the next five years. 
8. Should be able to provide a user-friendly printable report. 
9. The onsite warranty period must be five years from the installation date, and CMC for five years 
after that. 
10. Onsite training of the staff for running the equipment. 
11. Should be compatible with the electricity supply of Indian standard 
12. Service must be provided within 07 days of registration of complaint or a loaner must be provided, 
failing which penalty will be imposed as per rule. 
 
Note:  L1 will be decided on the basis of total value of items cost + CMC cost. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 40 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/PM/197/2024/GTE 
40 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document for complete 
equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period 
will be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date 
of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 98% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by double the 
downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) 
X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service 
should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the spares for the 
equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents (if they have the 
requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The 
same will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes preventive maintenance 
including testing & calibration as per technical/ service /operational manual of the manufacturer, labour 
and spares, after satisfactory completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly 
basis for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) 
and Site Modification Work (if any). The supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended in the 
manufacturer’s technical/ service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive 
maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender Opening. The taxes 
to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken 
inclusive of such taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be taken at Net Present 
Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory completion of said period, 
duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee for 5% of the cost of the CMC contract value as 
per Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of entire CMC period.  
e) There will be 98% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis, with 
penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at least twice in 6 months 
(i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the 
successful completion of warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the Bank Guarantee for 
Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 41 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/PM/197/2024/GTE 
41 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, wherever required. The 
Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be installed, in consultation with HOD of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College 
concerned. 
Site 
Modification 
Work 
details 
of 
each 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices 
indicating break-up of prices of the Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College. The Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken 
inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note1:Tenderer‟s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The tenderer is to provide 
the required details, information, confirmations, etc. accordingly failing which its tender is liable to be 
ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of equipment for carrying out 
routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked for and should make sure that Electrical Safety 
Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS 
Safety Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 60601 is a 
part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they should provide a 
commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional 
Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development Centres across the country on every preventive 
maintenance call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface interoperability 
conditions for networked equipment in hospital management information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical training for 
personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at the institute immediately after 
its installation. The company shall be required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum 
period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC period 


