--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Electrophysiological System                                                                   Admn/Tender/03/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
Technical Specification of Electrophysiological System 
Sr 
no. 
Name 
Multiple function system for any type of 
electroretinogram(ERG) , visual evoked potential(VEP), or 
electro-oculogram(EOG) 
1 
Operational 
Requirements 
Should be a Fully automated mobile work station 
2 
Technical 
Specifications 
Flash visual Evoked Potential and Pattern Visual Evoked 
Potential facility with user defined color change facility 
 
Electro-retinogram (Ganzfeld with tilting stand and patient 
response switch) 
 
Electro-oculogram 
 
Visual acuity testing 
 
Nystagmography 
 
Saccade analysis 
 
2 
 
Flash visual Evoked Potential and Pattern Visual Evoked Potentia
facility with user defined color change facility 
Electro-retinogram (Ganzfeld with tilting stand and patient 
response switch) 
Electro-oculogram 
Nystagmography 
Multifocal ERG & VER from 19 to 240 points 
 
3 
Environmental factors 
 
 
The unit shall be capable of being stored continuously in 
ambient temperature of 0-50deg C and relative humidity 
of 15-90% 
The unit shall be capable of operating continuously in 
ambient temperature of 10 -40 deg C and relative 
humidity of 15-90% 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Electrophysiological System                                                                   Admn/Tender/03/2020-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Power Supply 
 
 
Power input to be 220-240VAC, 50Hz fitted with Indian 
plug 
Voltage corrector/stabilizer of appropriate ratings meeting 
ISI Specifications.( Input 160-260 V and output 220-240 
V and 50 Hz) 
Resettable overcurrent breaker shall be fitted for 
protection 
Suitable UPS with maintenance free batteries for 
minimum one-hour back-up should be supplied with the 
system. 
 
 
5 
 
Standards, Safety and 
Training 
 
 
Manufacturer should have ISO certification for quality 
standards. 
Should be FDA, CE, UL or BIS approved product 
Comprehensive training for lab staff and support services 
till familiarity with the system. 
Electrical safety conforms to standards for electrical safety 
IEC 60601-1 (OR EQUIVALENT international/national 
standard) General requirement for Electrical safety of 
Medical Equipment. 
 
6 
 
 
Documentation 
User/Technical/Maintenance manuals to be supplied in 
English. 
List of Equipments available for providing calibration and 
routine Preventive Maintenance Support. as per 
manufacturer documentation in service/technical manual. 
Compliance Report to be submitted in a tabulated and 
point wise manner clearly mentioning the page/para 
number of original catalogue/data sheet. Any point, if not 
substantiated with authenticated catalogue/manual, will 
not be considered. 
Log book with instructions for daily, weekly, monthly and 
quarterly maintenance checklist. The job descriptin of the 
hospital technician and company service engineer should 
be clearly spelt out. 
Certificate of calibration and inspection. 
List of important spare parts and accessories with their 
part number and costing. Available in stock with the 
supplier. 
 


