--- Page 15 ---
Tender Ref.: 11055/064/AIIMSBBSR/NEONAT/2023-24/27 
 
P a g e  15 | 37 
 
 
3. Technical Bid (Specification): 
 
 
Name of the e-Tender: Supply, Installation & Commissioning of Inhaled Nitric Oxide Delivery 
and Monitoring System as per specification at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar. 
 
3.1 
Schedule of Requirements: 
 
The institute requires One (01) No. of Inhaled Nitric Oxide Delivery and Monitoring 
System as per specification. The equipment is/are to be delivered within 90 days from 
placing of Purchase Order at the Central Store of AIIMS Bhubaneswar at the quoted/ 
negotiated price without any additional cost to the institute as per specifications given 
below: 
                 
Sl No 
Technical Specification 
Compliance 
Yes / No 
Remarks 
1 
This system is intended to be used for selective pulmonary 
vasodilation. 
 
 
2 
The system should be mounted on a mobile trolley/stand capable 
of holding at least 2(two) Nitric Oxide cylinders simultaneously. At 
least 2 (two) of the 4/5 wheels of the trolley should be lockable. 
 
 
3 
Nitric Oxide Delivery and Monitoring System having 10” or more 
Colour Touch Screen Monitor must be capable of the followings 
a) Real time continuous monitoring of NO, NO2, + O2  with 
audio alarms. 
b) Capable of Automatic (preferably), Real-time, Semi-
automatic and Manual NO delivery modes for use with 
adult, pediatric and Neonatal patients. 
c) NO Delivery Range                   :   0.5 to 80 ppm 
d) Measuring Range ± 5% NO     :   0 to 120 ppm 
                                          NO2     :   0  to 20 ppm 
                                             O2     :   0  to 100% ppm 
e) Vent Flow Range                       :   0.5 to 80 LPM 
f) Sample Line Flow Rate             :   90 to 225 ml/min 
g) Battery Life                                 :  3 hours or more 
h) Comprehensive alarms including that for cylinder pressure 
in both mbar and graphical. 
i) When one cylinder is getting empty, the other should start 
delivering the gas without manual intervention to prevent 
sudden cessation of the therapy. 
j) Users should be able to access the log files on the 
computers for research and clinical studies. 
k) Graphical trend of the last 24 hours for NO, NO2  , O2 , Flow 
etc. 
l) Room air measurement of the NO, NO2  and O2 should be 
displayed on the same screen. 
m) Automatic Calibration & Remote Service support will be 
preferred. 
 
 
4 
Each of the system must be supplied with following accessories: 
a) Nitric Oxide delivery circuit for neonates           -    10 
 
b) Calibration Kit (as per manufacturer recommendations)  -01 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 16 ---
Tender Ref.: 11055/064/AIIMSBBSR/NEONAT/2023-24/27 
 
P a g e  16 | 37 
 
Important :-  
1. Bidder must have prior experience of at least one installation of same make Nitric Oxide 
System in the last 3 years from the due date of the tender in any reputed hospital such as but 
not 
limited 
to 
any 
AIIMS-New 
Delhi, 
PGIMER- 
Chandigarh, 
NIMHANS, 
SGPGI/KGMC/RMLPGI 
in 
Lucknow; 
SMS-Jaipur 
or 
JIPMER 
and 
SCTIMS 
Thiruvananthapuram etc. 
2. Satisfactory working certificate form other reputed hospital in India (of last 2 years) 
3. Separate Price must be enclosed for all the consumables, refilling charge for calibration 
cylinders if any, maintenance kits, if applicable and accessories must be quoted for re-
ordering. 
4. Cylinders must be refillable in India with 800 PPM of NO and balanced N2 gas mixture. 
Cylinder refilling charges of the Nitric Oxide with pick-up to drop-back service at our Institute 
must be quoted clearly, which will remain in force for at least next 5 yers. 
5. Bidders must quote the price for the INO system with consumables (NO delivery Kit 
compatible with SLE, Drager, Schiller ventilators), cost of cylinders (NO & Calibration Kit if 
any) and Warranty for 5 years, quote separately for CMC for another 5 years. 
6. System must be CE (European), USFDA or BIS certified product. 
7. Bidders must arrange for refilling of empty cylinders and must arrange certificates required 
to operate these cylinders if any. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


