--- Page 45 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Microscope 
 
Page 42 of 67 
 
SECTION – V 
SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT (SCC) 
The following Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) will apply for this purchase. The 
corresponding clauses of General Conditions of Contract (GCC) relating to the SCC 
stipulations have also been incorporated below. 
These Special Conditions will modify/substitute/supplement the corresponding 
(GCC) clauses. Whenever there is any conflict between the provision in the GCC and 
that in the SCC, the provision contained in the SCC shall prevail. 
The warranty and CMC period will be as mentioned in the list of requirement as per 
section VI of the tender enquiry. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 46 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Microscope 
 
Page 43 of 67 
 
SECTION – VI 
LIST OF REQUIREMENTS 
Part I 
Item 
No. 
Tender ID 
Name of the Item 
Qty 
Unit Warranty 
Period 
CMC 
Period 
1 
AIIMSMG/Proc/
2022-23/GTE/ 
Microscope 
Microscope (with 
Phase Contrast and 
Camera attachment) 
01 
No 
5 Years  
5 Years 
Part II: Required Delivery Schedule: 
a. 
For Indigenous goods or for imported goods if supplied from India:  
60 days from date of Notification of Award to delivery at consignee site. The 
date of delivery will be the date of delivery at consignee site. Tenderers may 
quote earliest delivery period.  
Installation and commissioning shall be done within 45 days of receipt of the 
stores/ goods at site or within 45 days of handing over the site for installation, 
whichever is later. 
b. 
For Imported goods directly from foreign: 
90 days from the date of opening of LC. The date of delivery will be the date 
when the consignment reaches the port of destination. (Tenderers may quote 
the earliest delivery period). Delivery of indigenous goods contracted along 
with the direct imported items shall be within the scheduled delivery period for 
imported goods. 
Installation and commissioning shall be done within 45 days of receipt of the 
stores/ goods at site or within 45 days of handing over the site for installation, 
whichever is later 
For delayed delivery and/ or installation and commissioning, liquidated 
damages will be applied as per GCC clause 23. 
Note: 
i) 
The delivery schedule for different sites may be staggered based on the site 
readiness. 
ii) 
Supplier has to submit clear documents for opening of LC to AIIMS 
Mangalagiri within 21 days of placement of order. Any delay will be treated 
as non-performance and Liquidated Damages shall be levied. 
iii) 
In case of multiple LC are opened in favour of multiple manufacturers, the 
delivery period for all the items under the contract shall be counted from 
the date of opening of the first LC only. 
iv) 
Indigenous goods or imported goods if supplied from India (offered in INR) 
which are linked with supply of directly imported goods, are to be supplied 
within the contractual delivery period as stated in para b) above. 


--- Page 47 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Microscope 
 
Page 44 of 67 
 
Part III: Scope of Incidental Services:  
Installation & Commissioning, Supervision, Demonstration, Trial run and Training 
etc. as specified in GCC Clause 13 
Part IV: Site Modification Work (if any) as per details in Technical Specification. 
Part V: Warranty 
Warranty period as per details in general technical specification and as specified in 
Part I above. Warranty period will be 60 months from the date of installation, 
commissioning and acceptance. 
Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) as per details in Technical Specification 
as specified in part I above 
Part VI: Required Terms of Delivery and Destination: 
a) 
For Indigenous goods or for imported goods if supplied from India: At 
Consignee Site(s) 
b) 
For Imported goods directly from abroad: 
The foreign tenderers are required to quote their rates on CIP Named Port of 
Destination Basis giving breakup of the price as per the Proforma prescribed in the 
Price Schedule. Purchaser will place the order on CIP Named Port of Destination 
basis. 
Insurance (local transportation and storage) would be extended and borne by 
the Supplier or its Indian Subsidiary/Agent from ware house to the consignee 
site for a period including3 months beyond date of delivery. 
Destination/Consignee details: 
A list of Consignee is given in Section XIX. The goods mentioned at Part-I in this 
section are intended to be supplied to the following hospitals/medical institutes. 
However, order may be placed for any hospital/institute across India. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 48 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ Microscope 
 
Page 45 of 67 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Microscope (with Phase 
Contrast and Camera attachment) 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. 
Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ 
quotation clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the 
firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
Technical Specifications of Microscope (with Phase Contrast and Camera 
attachment) 
S. No 
Specification 
1 
Microscope stand with Coaxial focusing control knobs, coarse motion torque 
adjustable, Upper stage drive stop incorporated. 
2 
Colour Corrected Infinity Optical System, Anti fungus. 
3 
Choice of different powers of Six objectives 4X/0.10, WD 30mm, 10X/0.25 WD 
10.5mm with phase contrast, 20X/0.40 W.D. 1.2 mm with Phase Contrast, 
40X/0.65 WD 0.56mm with Phase Contrast, 60X/0.85 WD 0.3mm Planflour, 
100X/1.25, WD 0.20mm. Spring loaded, long barrel. Objectives should be flat 
apochromatic 
4 
Eyepieces with pointer (paired and compensating) 10X (FOV 20 or more) 
5 
Mechanical stage of standard dimensions 
6 
Swing out Type Planachromatic Abbe Condenser, NA. 0.90 
7 
Light Source: High Luminescent LED of > 50,000 hours life time 
8 
Lamp should not produce undesirable heat. 
9 
Microscope Cover and Hard Casing for storage of objectives, eyepieces, whole 
assembly 
10 
Power Supply 220-240 V AC 
11 
C Mount Adapter 
12 
High resolution Digital C MOS Camera with resolution of above optical 
resolution of 6.0 mega pixels or more, 12 bit. Camera and Quantum efficiency 
of 60 % or more 30 fps @ 1440 X 1024, Exposure time of 100u sec to 30 sec, 


