--- Page 10 ---
Tender for ECHO Cum Ultrasound Machine 
Admn/Tender/23/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
ECHO Cum 
Ultrasound 
Machine 
1. Fully digital, compact, portable colour Doppler ultrasound machine 
with pin less connector, weight less than 10 kg.  
2. Unit should be able to give very high image quality with advance 
technologies like compound imaging for better cardiac contrast 
resolution, tissue differentiation and edge detection, equivalent to high 
end cart based systems.  
3. System should be able to support speckle reduction imaging for 
better tissue differentiation and edge enhancement.  
4. The system shall have the ability to enhance tissue margins and 
improve contrast resolution by reducing artefacts and improving 
visualization of texture patterns & needle tip within the image, please 
specify the technology.  
5. Imaging modes of Real time 2D, Colour Doppler, Pulsed wave 
Doppler, Continuous wave Doppler, Power Doppler must be available 
on all cardiac transducers.  
6. System must have fast start up to scanning in less than 60 seconds 
from off condition, for use in critical and emergency situations.  
7. System should support transducer technologies like phased array, 
convex, linear, TEE etc.  
8. Cine memory on all modes.  
9. Convex probe should be with either single crystal technology or 
pure wave technology or high density for excellent Image quality on 
Difficult to image patients. Please mention the above technology used 
in the transducer. System offered with normal transducers on convex 
are liable for rejection  
10. System must be offered with a minimum 15 inch High Resolution 
Flat Panel Display monitor with monitor resolution of 1050 x 1400. 
11. The system shall process a dynamic range that is at least 165db. 
The system must display at a maximum depth of 35 cm.  
12. The system must have a dedicated cardiac calculation packages 
with PISA, TDI calculation packages, vascular calculations package.  
13. The unit must be compact, portable and lightweight, weighing less 
than 10 kg.  
14. Unit must be sturdy, resistant to breakage & damage on fall/ hit 
against the wall or hard surface for out of the hospital use.  
15. Alphanumeric soft keys keyboard with easy access scans controls, 
facility to sanitize the system keyboard to avoid cross contamination. 
16. The system must have the ability to function by AC/DC or battery 
power with the same degree of functionality, the battery life (run time) 
should be at least 2 (Two) hours, this needs to be demonstrated.  
17. The system must have archive capability for storage and retrieval 
of images and clips data.  
18. Data Transfer facility should be available as standard, to transfer 
images etc. easily onto another system/computer etc.  
19. System should possess software for Enhanced Needle 
Visualization to track the needle clearly at steep angles during the 
procedures while maintaining striking image quality of the target 
structures and the surrounding anatomy with simple On/Off 
functionality. This Facility should be available on both High 
frequency Linear and Curvilinear probes for -superficial as well as 
deeper blocks.  
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for ECHO Cum Ultrasound Machine 
Admn/Tender/23/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20. Unit must be sturdy, resistant to breakage & damage on fall on 
hard surface.  
21. The system should support all the DICOM functionality, Storage, 
Print, and Work List, also ready to connect to PACS.  
22. The manufacturer shall provide a loaner system in case of failure 
of system.  
23. The should have minimum hard 80GB disk drive space  
24. The equipment should be mountable on trolley & locking 
mechanism should be inbuilt into the trolley for safety & security of 
the system.  
25. The system and transducers should be USFDA & European CE 
certified (Certificate needs to be submitted).  
26. The rates of consumable accessories should also be quoted 
separately  
27. Onsite physical demonstration/training of the equipment to all the 
end users with all the requested facilities will be mandatory  
28. Items covered under warranty/CMC  
a) The rates of consumable and accessories should also be 
quoted separately in the financial bid.  
b) Company should ensure the supply of consumables and 
accessories for the period of warranty and CMC.  
Transducers Foot print to be supplied as for Pediatric use  
1. 6-13 +/-1 MHz multi-frequency, broadband linear transducer 
suitable for musculoskeletal, nerve, superficial, vascular, 
venous, ophthalmic in children.  
2. 8-5 MHz+/-1 multi frequency micro convex with suitable 
for abdominal, neonatal, nerve, vascular.  
3. 4-8 MHz +/- 1 broadband phased array transducer suitable 
for cardiac applications for Pediatric.  
4. 4-8 MHz +/- 1 broadband phased array transducer suitable 
for cardiac applications for neonates.  
5. 4-10 Mhz +/- 1 wide band multi array transducer multi 
frequency for musculoskeletal , nerve , superficial vascular and 
venous.( Hockey stick probe)  
System should be supplied with the following peripheral devices  
a. Dockable cart must have at-least 3 Imaging universal active 
probe ports with electronic switching facility from key board 
without probe adapter.  
b. System should have a barcode scanner to read patient 
information. 


