--- Page 17 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/T&E/18/20357/OT 
 
 
Page 17 of 20 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical Specification 
Sl. No. 
Item Descriptions 
 
1 
 
Specifications for Defibrillator-Cardioverter with ECG Monitor: 
Operational Requirements: 
1. Defibrillator should be Bi-Phasic, light weight and latest model  
2. Should monitor vital parameters like ECG, heart rate etc. and display them 
3. Should print the ECG when required 
4. Should work on Manual mode (0-200 J or more) 
5. Should be capable of doing synchronized & a synchronized cardioversion both 
6. Can be operated from mains as well as battery 
7. Should have defibrillator testing facility 
8. Facility for trans-cutaneous pacing and trans-venous pacing should be available 
Technical Specifications:  
1. Should be a Low Energy Biphasic defibrillator monitor with Recorder, having capability 
to arrest all arrhythmia within a maximum energy of 200 Joules for manual mode 
2. Should monitor ECG through paddles, pads and monitoring electrodes and Defibrillate 
through pads and paddles. Should have Automatic or Manual lead switching to see 
patient ECG through paddles or leads 
3. Should measure and compensate for chest impedance 
4. Should have a build in printer/ thermal recorder 
5. Should have minimal charging time for maximum energy with charging indication 
(mention the time in bid – shorter in preferred). 
6. Should have bright LCD/TFT display for viewing messages and ECG waveform 
7. Adult, neonate and paediatric paddles should be available 
8. Should have event summary facility for recording, printing and patient data storage of 
ECG and events.  
9. Should have a battery capable of usage for at least 02 hours or 50 discharges 
10. Should be capable of printing Reports on Event summary, configuration, self-test, 
battery capacity etc.  
11. Should have facility for self test/check before usage and set up function 
12. Should be capable of delivering energy in increments of 1-2 joules up to 30J and 
increments of max. 50J thereafter. (Narrow increments preferable) 
13. Should have user friendly colour coded operation. 
14. Should be USFDA approved. 
15. Should compensate for body impendence for a range of 25 to 150 ohms. 
16. Should have facility for monitoring like Spo2, NIBP & 12 lead ECG 
17. Accessories: -   
Defibrillator with external pacemaker – 1   
Paddles – Neonates – 2 pairs 
Paediatrics – 2 pairs 
Adults – 2 pairs 
 
 
ECG rolls – 5 
 
 
Spo2 reusable sensor – 1 
 
 
NIBP cuff -  Neonates – 2 
                             Paediatrics – 2 
                             Adult – 2 
 
 


