--- Page 20 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Micro/226(I)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 20 
 
 
Technical Specifications for the Gradient Thermocycler 
1. Six or more separate Peltier blocks should be provided in the instrument which provide maximal 
versatility and flexibility for: 
i. 
PCR optimization: Specific temperature can be set for each blockfor precise control over PCR 
optimization. 
ii. 
At least six or more different annealing temperature must be set simultaneously in the 
instrument so that six or more run can be set simultaneously in the same run. 
iii. 
For providing gradient function instrument must be able to provide six or more temperature 
zones for PCR optimization. 
2. Block for 96 × 0.2 ml tubes; possibility to use block with 48 × 0.5 ml tubes and 96-well PCR 
plates. 
3. Blocks must be resistant to oxidation. 
4. Heating rate: 4 ºC/s., Cooling rate: 2 ºC/s. 
5. Temperature range (block): 4–100 ºC. 
6. Regulating accuracy for block temperature: ±0.1 ºC. 
7. Temperature uniformity at 70 ºC (block): ±0.4 ºC. 
8. Dimension should be within Width (22 to 28cm) x Height (20 to 29cm) x Depth (40 to 50 cm) 
9. Internal memory for at least 50 programs with up to 99 steps/program, freely editable. 
10. Should have large color touch screen which enable easy operation with finger tip and setting up of 
cycle, easy view of temperature profile of during running of  cycle etc.  
11. Instrument should have USB port for easy portability of data . 
12. Heatable lid with automatic height adaptation. 
13. Electromechanical lid blocking to prevent accidental opening during a run. 
14. Temperature range for lid: 80 ºC to at least 103 ºC. 
15. Optional: Interface for remote control via PC; activated RS 232 serial port. 
16. Electricity requirements 
i. 
Supply voltage: 230 ± 10 V, AC, 50/60 Hz. 
ii. 
Voltage and plugs to be adapted to meet the Indian supply requirements. The line cord / Power 
cord supplied with the equipment shall be of acceptable durability, length, and current 
carrying capacity complying with Indian Standards. 
iii. 
Power consumption: Approximately 500 W. 
iv. 
Conform to electrical safety standards IEC 60601–1, UL 61010–1, EN 61010–1. 
v. 
Protection class (in accordance with EN 60529). 
 
vi. 
Designed not to interfere with circuit radio (in accordance with EN 55014). 
vii. 
Must be supplied with branded Online Sinewave UPS 2KVA with branded batteries providing 
back up of at least 2 hours of uninterrupted power supply in case of power failure. The vendor 


--- Page 21 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Micro/226(I)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 21 
 
must mention the make rating etc of UPS and batteries in the bid. The UPS with batteries must 
be compatible with the instrument. A five year warranty or replacement of UPS with batteries 
is required in case of non-functioning/malfunctioning/decay of batteries etc.  
17. Documentation 
i. 
Manufacturer’s certificate 
ii. 
The manufacturer must have a management system certified to ISO 9001. 
iii. 
One certificate to state that the thermocycler has been calibrated at the factory and certified 
according to ISO 13485 quality regulations. 
iv. 
Quality and safety standards met by the product must be listed. 
18. Operation, maintenance and installation 
i. 
Operation and maintenance manual (to be supplied in original, no photocopy will be 
entertained) 
ii. 
At least one set of operation, maintenance and service manuals written in English. 
iii. 
The bidder must arrange for the equipment to be installed by certified or qualified personnel; 
any prerequisites for installation to be communicated to the purchaser in advance, in detail. 
iv. 
Supplier must agree to provide IQ, OQ and PQ certification at the time of installation or as per 
the convenience of end user of the institute. 
v. 
The bidder to also provide user onsite training (including how to use and maintain the 
equipment) and a comprehensive maintenance plan on mutually agreed dates with the 
indenting department. The cost of the maintenance plan to be defined and guaranteed over the 
period of warranty.  
vi. 
The supplier to provide an after-sale service by competent staff, adequate infrastructure and 
sufficient spare parts to be able to respond to any complaints and to repair or replace the 
thermocycler within 7days.A half yearly essential service visits by service engineer has to be 
provided by supplier which may include training and up gradation of technicians and faculty 
and calibration and maintenance of instrument (with or without complaint visits). The 
maintenance services should be such that the equipment remains in working conditions during 
95% of warranty and CMC period.  
19. Standard maintenance tools: All standard accessories, consumables and parts required to 
operate the equipment, including all standard tools and cleaning and lubrication materials, to be 
included in the offer. Bidders to specify the quantity of every item included in their offer 
(including items not specified above). 
20. Spare parts: Thermocycler to be accompanied by an authorized list of accessories and spare 
parts. Set of fuses, if used separately in the instrument. 
21. A five year comprehensive warranty with spares and accessories to be provided by the bidder. 


--- Page 22 ---
 
AIIMS Rishikesh tender Enquiry No. F.No 24/Micro/226(I)/2017-RISH (ADMN) 
AIIMS, Rishikesh 
Page 22 
 
22. A CMC for next 5 years (after completion of successful warranty period)with spares and 
accessories needs to be included in quote. Complete price should be quoted for different 
consumables/spare parts which will be used in future in the machine.  These prices should be 
freezed for subsequent five years and in case of reduction of price the lower price to be 
communicated and to be charged by the supplier. Undertaking must be given by the supplier in 
this regards. 
 


