--- Page 19 ---
 
                           Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/348/18/OT 
 
 
 
Page 19 of 23 
 
                                                   Annexure-I   
Specification for CT & MRI Compatible Stereotactic Cranial Frame Set 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. Warranty: 5 years against  manufacturing defect  
2. All instruments should be corrosion resistant, autoclavable, BIS/European CE 
certified/USFDA approved. Manufacturer should be ISO certified. 
3. All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ quotation clearly 
marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
4. User manual should be in English.  
5. Provision of trained manpower support up to period when staff/technicians at AIIMS Raipur 
are trained in handling, storage and proper sterilization methods of equipment to be ensured 
by the bidder. 
6. Price of essential consumables should be fixed for the next years. 
7. Compliance statement should be submitted in a tabulated and point wise manner. 
8. All the components of item under a particular serial no. will be purchased together from a 
single vendor. If necessary demonstration will be taken to ensure product quality. 
9. All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed government hospitals 
like AIIMS/PGI/SCTIMST, and should submit a certificate of satisfactory working from the 
concerned government hospital. 
10. Produce quality certificate required. 
Technical specification for CT & MRI compatible stereotactic frame set- 1 No’s 
1. The main components of the stereotactic system should have a Cartesian frame and a semi 
circular arc, suitable for both adult and pediatric stereotaxy (for children over 2 years of age 
and compatible with CT & MRI and its gantry). 
2. The semicircular arc should incorporate a sliding instrument carrier for use with stereotactic 
needles, electrodes and other micro surgical instruments. 
3. Sterilization trays for both frame and arc should be compatible for gas sterilization (ETO), 
steam sterilization (autoclaving) and gas plasma sterilization. 
4. The stereotactic system should be arc centered with a 190mm radius with flexibility to reach 
from wider range of angles, and based on Cartesian coordinate system conforming to the X, 
Y and Z nomenclature used in CT &MR scanning. 
5. Numeric coordinate values (in millimeters) should be engraved on the frame and arc to 
ensure maximal accuracy. 
6. The posterior post should have three options of lengths – long, medium and short. 
7. The sliding instrument carrier on arc should have separate adjustable instrument guide and 
stop to ensure accuracy of the needle. 
8. The guide and stop inserts should be separate to enable effective cleaning. 
9. CT &MR adapter along with base unit should be included in the system to secure and support 
the patient’s head and should be adjustable to ensure a parallel scan plan without having to 
manipulate the gantry of the scanner. 
10. The total accuracy of the frame should be sub mm. 
11. The system should allow for transoral or transnasal intubation at any time during the 
procedure. It should also allow for an approach inferior to the frame to enable posterior fossa 
and transphenoidal procedures. 
12. It  should  allow  for  arc  fixation  to  the  frame  in  both  the  lateral  and  sagittalorientation 
with provision for three point fixation. 


--- Page 20 ---
 
                           Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Neuro/348/18/OT 
 
 
 
Page 20 of 23 
 
13. The stereotactic system should have dedicated CT table fixation with adaptor and indicator 
box. Similarly MRI dedicated adaptor and indicator should also be provided.  These should 
however not limit how low the frame may be mounted. 
14. The stereotactic system should provide necessary tool for testing its accuracy of the complete 
frame and arc with the target stimulator. 
15. The company should provide a tool to test the straightness of the needles and electrodes.  The 
Stereotactic system should provide tools for intra-operative image verification of the 
placement of clinical probes in relation the target   
16. The Stereotactic frame should offer a rigid and accurate fixation to the operation table 
headrest with three point fixation and should have a curved front piece which provides access 
to the patient’s airways and it can be fitted with the curve both the inferior or superior 
orientation. 
17. The coordinate frame should have an insertion cannula and hematoma evacuator designed to 
obtain safe guidance of implants, electrodes or catheters using stereotactic technique and 
hematoma evacuation using single burr hole.   
18. Spiral Biopsy needle with 10 mm spring to be provided -3 no’s 
19. Twist drill for twist burr hole through stereotactic arc of varying diameter from 2-3 mm to 
be provided - 3 nos. 
20. Needle with stop and guide of 2.5 mm & 2.1 mm respectively to be provided 
21. The stereotactic system should provide instrument designed for the injection, diagnostic and 
therapeutic punctures, aspirations and evacuations and instruments for puncturing of 
intracranial cavities with the insertion needle of diameter 2mm or more with accommodating 
catheters of more than 1.4mm diameters.   
22. The system should provide localization and planning software for different trajectories and 
fusion of C.T., MRI and PET images to perform CT, MRI and PET image fusion procedures 
along with necessary workstation/hardware. 
23. Should be FDA approved/European CE certified. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


