--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Hemodialysis Machine                                                                                       Admn/Tender/88/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Hemodialysis 
Machine 
Description of Function 
 Haemodialysis is a method for removing waste products as well 
as free water from the blood when the Kidneys are incapable of 
this. 
Operational Requirement 
 Bicarbonate/Acetate Haemodialysis.  
 The blood pump should run even in the absence of water or 
dialysate flow. 
 Single needle dialysis using one blood pump. 
 Isolated ultrafiltration/Sequential dialysis should be possible. 
Technical Specification.  
 Should have facility for conventional & high flux dialysis. 
 The Machine should have a colour monitor display. 
 Blood flow rate range should be 50 – 600ml/minute & adaptable 
to standard AV blood lines. 
 Dialysate flow rate ranges from 300 – 800 ml/minute. 
 Heparin pump: Delivery range 0 ml/min – 10 ml/min, Bolus 
function Max 5 ml per bolus. 
 Automatic set up and priming is preferred. 
 Positive and negative extracorporeal circuit pressure shall not 
affect the infusion rate. 
 Optical Detector should be there to sense light and dark (blood 
and saline) and should not be affected by ambient light. 
 Self-check test. 
 Inbuilt NIBP monitoring. 
 Should have inbuilt facility of hot & chemical disinfection with 
both short & long disinfection and 2 nos of 5 litres pack of hot 
disinfectant competent with quoted model with each machine 
should be supplied. 
 Should have arterial & venous pressure monitoring range. 
 Alarm should be activated for air bubbles and microbubbles over 
the entire blood flow. 
 Should have facility to change sodium range 130 – 150 mmol/l 
 Temperature control range should be 35.0 degree C to 39.0 
degree C. 
 The dialysate conductivity shall be adjusted by setting the 
sodium concentration. 
 Machine should have inbuilt sodium & ultrafiltration profiling. 
 Machine should have blood leak detector alarm.  
 Ultrafiltration rate should be 0 to 4L/ hr given by the set values 
of UF volume and treatment time.  
 Treatment Time adjustable up to 9 hr 59 min. in 1 min 
increment.  
 TMP Monitoring should be displayed.  
 Built-in device for measurement and monitor of effective urea 
clearance (K) dialysis dose (Kt/V), and plasma sodium (Na) 
automatically during treatment. 
 The measurement of effective urea clearance (K), dialysis dose 
(kt/V and plasma sodium (Na) shall be preformed in non-
invasive, real-time mode without additional disposable required 
during treatment. 
 Facility for heat, chemical disinfection and auto-switch off. 
08 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Hemodialysis Machine                                                                                       Admn/Tender/88/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
 Should have inbuilt Dry Bicarbonate  powder module to provide 
hygiene online mixing to avoid precipitation and it should be 
supplied with each machine (10 nos) and should be competent 
with quoted model. 
 Machine should have inbuilt facility of endotoxin retention filter 
and should have automatic programme and guidance message for 
changing the filter. 
System Configuration Accessories, Spares and consumables 
 All consumables required for installation and standardization of 
system to be given free of cost.    
 Company must supply Bacterial filters-6 sets extra and 100 
dialyzers with tubings free of cost. 
Environmental Factors 
 Machine should operate & being stored under extreme 
temperature conditions of lowest 2 degrees C and highest 48 
degree C and humidity of > 80%.  
Power supply 
 Power input to be 220-240VAC, 50Hz fitted with Indian plug. 
 Machine should have battery backup for at least 15 min in case 
of AC power failure. 
 One 3 KVA online UPS with at least 30 min power backup must 
be supplied with each machine. 
Standard, Safety and Training 
 The machine should be US FDA/European CE approved. The 
certificate should be provided. 
 Shall comply with IEC 60601-2-16 SAFETY requirements of 
medical electric equipment Part-2. 
 Comprehensive training for lab staff and support services till 
familiarity with the system. 
 The principal company should have its own office, distribution 
and service network in India. The company should have 
excellent service backup with resident engineers based in major 
cities of Rajasthan. The names of service engineers must be 
given along with the proof of employment of principal company. 
 In case of breakdown it should be attended within 24 hours and 
repaired within 72 hours. 
Documentation 
 User/Technical/Maintenance manuals to be supplied in English. 
 Certificate of calibration and inspection. 
 List of Equipment’s available for providing calibration and 
routine Preventive Maintenance Support. As per manufacturer 
documentation in service/technical manual.  
 List of important spare parts and accessories with their part 
number and costing. 
 Log book with instruction for daily, weekly, monthly and 
quarterly maintenance checklist. 
 Web site of the parent company to be mentioned, for verification 
of the detail and specification, if required.  
 Machine at the time of supply will be of same year of 
manufacture. 
 Company must ensure uninterrupted supply of consumables. 
 The job description of the hospital technician and company 
service engineer should be clearly spelt out. 
 Demonstration Is Must As And When Required. 


