--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Pul_Med/18/035/OT/AA 
 
Page 19 of 23 
 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
                                    TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION OF  
“BROADBASED QR FOR BODY PLETHYSMOGRAPHY WITH DIFFUSION STUDY”  
                         FOR DEPARTMENT OF PULMONARY MEDICINE 
 
Body Box (Plethysmography Machine) 
 
1. A wide cabin with internal volume range of > 800 litres to provide 
ease of accessibility and comfort to the patient without effecting 
volume changes. 
2. Transparent robust glass walls to ensure visibility from all sides and minimize 
any claustrophobic feeling for the patient. 
3. The seat must be ergonomic, comfortable and adjustable in height to bear 
weight up to 150Kg. 
4. The arm for the breathing valve support must be flexible enough to allow 
tests execution even outside the cabin. 
5. Controlling station should be on a movable trolley. 
6. Intercom for communication with the patient 
 
I. 
Test and minimum set of parameter required - 
 
Dynamic lung 
volumes 
Measurement of the Forced Vital Capacity (FVC), Slow Vital 
Capacity (SVC) and Maximal Ventilatory Ventilation (MVV). 
  Graphic display of Flow/volume, Volume/time loops. 
Bronchial 
challenge test 
a) 
Measurement of the response to Bronco constriction and    
      Bronco dilatation, graphic display of fall FEV1. 
b)  Broncho - Challenge test with Body Plethysmography    
 (RAW Challenge test) 
Static lung 
volumes 
Measurement of TGV, RV, VC, IRV, ERV, FRC, TLC 
Airway resistance 
RAW (Insp, exp, tot), SRAW, GAW, SGAW, Derived 
parameters 
Respiratory 
Machanics 
MIP/MEP and Respiratory Drive (P0.1) 
Lung Diffusion 
Capacity Tests 
using Helium 
a) Single-Breath with Apnea 
b) Single Breath without Breath Holding (Intrabreath). 
 
II. 
Technical Specifications - 
 
1. Flow meters:  calibration free ultrasonic based flow sensor. 
 
2. CO Analyzer: Preferably Non Dispersive Infrared (NDIR) or ATS/ ERS 
recommended techniques. 
 
3. Helium Analyzer: The equipment must use Helium as tracer gas and 
measurement of He preferably by Ultrasonic Mol mass/Thermal Conductivity 
determination technique/ ATS/ERS recommended technique. 
 
4. Sensors:  
i. All sensors should preferably be non-consumable or their life should be 
specified and the bidder should arrange free sensors for the 
warranty/CMC period. 


--- Page 20 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/Pul_Med/18/035/OT/AA 
 
Page 20 of 23 
 
 
 
ii. 
All sensors of equipment should meet the American Thoracic Society 
(ATS)/ European Respiratory Society (ERS) standard for linearity, 
response time, and accuracy. 
 
III. 
Power Supply: The operating AC Voltage range should be 100-240V 
AC±10% 50/60Hz. 
 
IV. 
Interface: It should have RS232/USB interface for connecting to a 
computer. 
 
V. 
Software:  Latest Software should be supplied with the equipment. The 
management software should be designed for Windows 10 environment 
and also should be able to connect to online hospital information system 
and work flow when necessary with easy data storage and recovery for 
research purpose. 
 
VI. 
Essential Accessories: The system should be supplied with all essential 
accessories required like: 
1. Trolly 
 
2. All in one Desktop PC, with Intel i7 processor 8GB RAM 1TB hard drive 
memory, Original Windows 10, 18.5” LED Colour Display monitor.  
 
3.  monochromatic laser printer: 01 
 
4. On line UPS (1 KVA) : 01 to provide power backup up to at least 3hrs 
 
5. Diffusion Test gas cylinder with pressure regulatators: (02 No’s) 
 
6. Anti-Bacterial Filters: 3000 nos. 
 
7. Reusable rubber nose clips: 50 nos. 
 
VII. 
Quality assurance: 
 
1. The system should have ISO/ BIS/ European CE/US FDA, 
certifications and should meet latest ATS/ERS standardization 
guidelines. 
 
2. The company should also provide a certificate stating the model provided 
in the latest version available. 
 
3. The company should also provide a certificate stating that spare parts and 
service with available easily for at least next 10yrs. 
 
VIII. Warranty: 
1. 05 Years onsite Warranty & 05 years CMC of the principal equipment i.e 
body box with plethysmograph (CMC rates to quote separately). 
2.  05 years onsite warranty of 
I. 
Desktop with CPU 
3.  
II. 
UPS 
4.  
III. 
Printer 
 
3. Training of technician whenever necessary or when requested by the 
department. 
 


