--- Page 45 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1158/22/GTE/B 
 
45
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – VII  
                     Specification for ENT Navigation System 
Sn 
Description 
1 
System Specifications 
a The system should be easy to set up, user friendly, Intuitive and should work under Windows/ Linux/Unix 
operating system environment. 
b 
The system should be a single cart portable system with wheels so can be easily moved in the OT enviroment and 
 Dimensions of  system should be around : 250 mm x 250 mm x 180 mm , and should be virtually zero footprint 
in OT 
 
c The display should be of full HD resolution of 1920X1080  with monitor size 26" or more. 
d The system should have Rapid data transfer directly to the navigation station with the option of USB 3.0 port for 
direct data import and also have direct and seamless integration with the hospitals PACS system 
e The system should have facility to load patient data into the system through CD or DVD, USB and PACS. 
f The system should have Wireless or wired options available for connecting to hospital PACS system. 
g The wireless options should be provided with inbuilt security features such as firewall, encryption and antivirus. 
h The system should have password protection so  only authorised user can access the systemsoftware. 
i 
The system must work on Optical and advanced wireless passive marker tracking technology or 
electromagnetic technology and it must have electromagnetic based dynamic referencing so that registration is 
not lost even if the patient moves and helps navigate malleable instruments.  
j The system should provide emitter which can be placed under the patient head or can be mounted on the side bed 
rail or sensor can be integrated  into headrest for OR table 
k The system should have inbuilt UPS or should provide external UPS with backup of upto 5minutes incase of 
power supply failure. 
l The system should have enough storage space for accessories and should be easily accessible or should provide 
trolley for storing the accessories. 
2 ENT Navigation Software Specifications 
a 
The ENT navigation software should be user friendly, easy to use and should have capability to alter workflow as 
per surgeon preference. 
Additional Option  Ear Navigation Software to support Ear indications, e.g.transmastoidal surgery or endoscopic 
ear surgery  
b Preferably The software should allow to create multiple surgeon profile and set procedures and settings as per 
the surgeon requirement. 
c The software should allow DICOM images in Axial, Sagittal or Coronal planes and should be reconstructed as 
3D images and advanced planning can be done on any plane which should be adapted to all planes automatically 
d The software should have Image merge option in order to merge CT and MRI images and use them during 
navigation as per surgeons choice. 
e The software should have advanced 3D model building functions which are user friendly. It should have 
automatic tumor building function using seed/planning points 
f The software should have option to feature to view orthogonal, axial, coronal and orthogonal cut planes which 
allows sectional view of 3D models. 


--- Page 46 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1158/22/GTE/B 
 
46
 
 
g The software should have option to use surface trace based registration and touch based using fiducially or 
anatomic landmark based registration and if required combination of surface and touch registration. 
h The software should auto detect the fiducials and guide towards touch based registration by default. 
i The software should display the area of accuracy with the help of sphere or number matrix and it should show 
which area is not covered during registration inorder for the surgeon to modify registration if required. 
j The software should be capable of storing previous registrations for that patient. Registration should be recovered 
even if system switches off. 
k The software should have facility to store screenshots taken during procedure as well as record the navigation 
screen for about  30minutes or external video recording should be provided if it is not inbuilt in the system. 
l The software should have option to perform Standard FESS, Endoscopic Skull base, Coronal flaps and other 
Skull base procedures. 
m The software should have option to view endoscopic or microscopic video on the screen 
n The software should be ready to navigate navigable 0 degree, 12 degree and 40 degree debrider blades. 
o The software should have virtual/real time target guided endoscopic view feature to view 3D models. 
p The software should have capability to store registration restore points to regain registration during the procedure 
to save time in case the refrence is shifted. 
3 ENT Navigation Instruments and accessories 
a 
The system should be provide with flat pannel electromagnetic generator which can be positioned under patient 
head and / or side mount which can be fixed around the head or  the system should be provide which can be 
integrated into head rest for OR tables  
b 
The system should be provide with the ENT instruments set of malleable instruments with an outer diameter 
down to 0.8 mm/1.5 mm or 2mm which are navigable under electromagnetic technology. The portable 
navigation provides a 
c The instruments must include but not limit to a straight probe, straight suction, 90 degree curved suction, 70 
degree curved suction and ostium seeker. 
d The instruments must be autoclavable/ETO sterilised for multiple use and should be covered under warranty 
e 
The instrument consumables required for navigation should be provided along with the system sufficient for 
about 10 surgeries 
 
f Navigation sensor at the tip of the navigation instruments (to enable intra operative bending without  
 new calibration ) 
g They system should have pediatric friendly reference frame  suitable for coronal flap surgeries. 
h The system should allow connecting upto 4 or more instruments at the same time and navigate them as required. 
j Storage device of 1tb-2 & 2 tb-2 
 
k Pointer instruments for Sinus surgery and Plastic reconstruction with:diameter 1.5 or 2.8 mm malleable 
l Pointer instrument for Ear surgery with:diameter 1.5 mm 
m Pointer Shell (navigated adapter for rigid cylindrical instruments), e.g. shaver  blades:For diameters 3 or 4 or 
5mm or should offer a universal Pointer Shell e.g Shaver blade with other manufacturer can be used . 
4 
Support Specifications 


--- Page 47 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1158/22/GTE/B 
 
47
 
 
a Company should provide proper training on the system for surgeons and technicians at the hospital. 
b System should be provided with the operating manual. 
c Company should provide high quality after sales service. 
d Company should provide BIS/" USFDA & European CE" clearance certificate 
e 5 years CMC and 5 years warranty is required including all accessories 
f System should be BIS/ISO/European CE/USFD Approved certificate both standards should be attached with 
tender 
g Training for user department, doctors and staff should be provided as per the satisfaction of buyer. 
h Trolley with wheel from the same manufacturer & storage box for all accessories. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 48 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1158/22/GTE/B 
 
48
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE 
document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic 
parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of 
installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date of 
satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period 
by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After 
sales 
service 
centre 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service should 
be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the 
spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 years from the date of 
supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian 
Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the 
equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same will be in line with the 
training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site 
Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service 
/operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory 
completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for 
complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts 
wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The supplier shall visit 
each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer‟ s technical/ service 
/operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive 
maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender 
Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of 
any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim 
for the same will be entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee 
for 3% of the cost of the CMC as per Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of 
entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 
365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime 
period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee‟ s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the 
Bank Guarantee for Annual CMC. 


--- Page 49 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1158/22/GTE/B 
 
49
 
 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 50 ---
                                                                  
                                                         Tender No. AIIMS/R/CS/ENT/1158/22/GTE/B 
 
50
 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, 
wherever required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to 
be installed, in consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. 
Site Modification Work details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the 
end of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of 
the Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The 
Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking 
Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation 
the price will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be 
entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderer‟ s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). 
The tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it‟ s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical 
equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety 
Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard 
IEC- 60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is 
not available they should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for 
electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test 
and Development Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance 
call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard 
interface interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital 
management information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost 
technical training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment 
on site at the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be 
required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and 
CMC period 


