--- Page 41 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/CTVS/1186/24/GTE 
Page 41 of 65 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL  SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Intra Aortic Balloon Pump (IABP) 
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. Warranty: 5 years against  manufacturing defect  
2. All instruments should be corrosion resistant, autoclavable, BIS approved. 
3. Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ quotation clearly marking the 
Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. All the components of item under a particular serial no. will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the firms. 
6. L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central government hospitals 
like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of satisfactory working from the concerned 
government hospital. 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR “Intra Aortic Balloon Pump (IABP)”   
 
1. Latest Generation Autopilot, Touch screen IABP System, with Wave form touch access 
control. 
2. Transportable, Compact IABP System with minimum 90 Min of battery Backup. 
3. Fast Pneumatics to provide accurate & reliable ventricular support enhancing augmentation& 
improved After-load reduction. Preferably a stepper motor Driven Bellows system for faster 
drive –gas shuttle speed.  
4. System should provide start-up checklist, when the pump is ready to start. 
5. System should be capable of using fibre optic Balloon and conventional balloons. 
6. Should have  
1) Automatic. 
2) Operator Modes of operation.  
7. System should be able to Trigger on Pulse Pressure as low as 3mm Hg. 
8. System should be free from scheduled Maintenance and replacing the Spares on basis of 
usage. 
9. System should stop shuttling of gas in case of balloon rupture and avoid chances of blood 
leak    to machine (with Alarm). 
10. Should be capable of removing Condensation automatically without interrupting the therapy. 
11. System should be capable of automatically selecting appropriate trigger that is  
A. ECG, or     
B. Pressure and also accurately select the inflation and deflation point in automatic mode.  
C. Trigger on pacer (V pace, Apace),  
D. Automatic internal trigger rate.  
E. A fib Mode.  
12. In automatic and operator mode single ecg trigger should be able to track various ventricular 
and atrial arrhythmia including VE‘s bigeminy, Trigeminy, Couplets etc and atrial 
fibrillation, without any user intervention and still give optimal performance. 
13. Machine should provide print of Therapy report &100 Alarm History report. 
14. 3600 Visible priority colour intensified Alarm status required. 
15. In automatic mode, advanced software should automatically adapt the Timings for various 
rhythms and rate variations, without any user intervention. 
16. In automatic mode it should automatically identify atrial fibrillation and adopt r-wave 
deflation mode for better patient support without any user intervention. 


--- Page 42 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/CTVS/1186/24/GTE 
Page 42 of 65 
 
17. Single key start up to make it fast, user friendly and easy to use.  
18. Should be able to display at least 3 wave form as ECG, Invasive Pressure and balloon 
pressure Wave form. 
19. Large detachable display for brighter and very good visibility from a distance in any lighting 
conditions.  
20. On screen indication for helium level in the cylinder and battery level for timely intervention 
and correction. 
21. ECG Inflation marker to indicate inflation period on ECG which can be usefully when atrial 
pressure wave form is not available. 
22. On screen indication of standby time and should give alarm after 20 mts to draw user’s 
attention on the system being on standby. 
23. Should give extensive help message to correct the alarm conditions that are specific to the 
alarm conditions, this should help the user to overcome the alarm problem immediately and 
with ease. 
24. In built comprehensive service diagnostics to help the technician to locate the faults 
immediately.- 
25. System should be supplied with the followings. 
● ECG cable with lead wires 01 Nos. 
● Compatible Pressure transducer cable -01 Nos. 
● Refillable helium cylinder compatible with the iabp system helium (or other) gas cylinders 
1 Nos. certificate from explosives dept. 
● It should be provided with at least 5  IABP balloon (30CC) catheter(Free of cost)  
● It should be supplied with hand helded Doppler for checking of peripheral pulses. 
26. Entire unit should be mounted on wider wheel with max 50 kg weight, for Easy transport. 
27. Warranty should be 5 years and thereafter 5 year CMC. 
 
 
 
 Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description as 
per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item Description 
offered by Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 43 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/CTVS/1186/24/GTE 
Page 43 of 65 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document 
for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever 
applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning 
and 
Site 
Modification 
Work 
from 
the 
date 
of 
satisfactory 
installation, 
commissioning, trial run & handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by 
double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, 
maximum within 8 hrs. The service should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. 
Undertaking by the Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 
10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents 
(if 
they have the requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the 
satisfaction of the consignee. The same will be in line with the training modalities as 
specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site 
Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes preventive 
maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ service /operational manual 
of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after satisfactory completion of Warranty period 
may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for complete equipment 
(including Batteries 
for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). 
The supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended 
in the manufacturer’s technical/ 
service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ 
year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender 
Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any 
such 
stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes and no claim for the same 
will be 
entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be taken at Net 
Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory completion of 
said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee for 5% of the cost of the 
equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 
(days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime period. 
f) During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at least twice 
in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, 
commencing from the date of the successful completion of warranty period for preventive 
maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the Bank 
Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 


--- Page 44 ---
 
Tender Enquiry No.: AIIMS/R/CS/CTVS/1186/24/GTE 
Page 44 of 65 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, 
wherever required. The Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be 
installed, in consultation with HOD of Hospital/Institution/Medical College concerned. Site 
Modification Work details of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end 
of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices indicating break-up of prices of the 
Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical College. The Site 
Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the 
price will be taken inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be 
entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note 1: Tenderer’s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). 
The tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it‟s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked 
for and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical 
equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety 
Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 
60601 is a part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not 
available they should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for 
electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test 
and Development Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance 
call. 
Note 3: Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management 
information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost 
technical training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment 
on site at the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be 
required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and 
CMC period 
 
 


