--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Portable Color Doppler Machine with USG                                                     Admn/Tender/89/2016-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Portable 
Color 
Doppler 
Machine 
with USG 
1.  Should be top of the line and State of the Art fully digital 
portable ultrasound machine with provision for Doppler 
examinations  
2.  The unit should have a laptop type console design. The unit 
should be compact, lightweight and portable. Weight should 
not exceed 10 kg including battery (excluding cart and 
accessories).  
3.  Provided with high quality, compact stand with lockable 
wheels  
4.  It should be suitable for abdominal, small parts, cardiac and 
vascular applications in both adults and pediatric patient.  
5.  Multiple preloaded as well as user configurable application 
presets should be available.  
6.  The system should have advanced measurement, manual and 
automatic for all applications. 
7.  The system should have minimum 1500 or more digital 
processing channels and 256 or more grey shades.  
8.  Maximum scanning depth to be 30 cm or more.  
9.  The system to have a dynamic range of 165 decibels or more.   
10.  The system should be able to support all type of transducers 
(Convex, Linear and Phased array Transducers).  
11.  All transducers should be lightweight digital phased array 
broadband type transducers with at least 1024 elements. 
12.  Provision for inter-switchability between the transducers 
without the need of manual disconnection 
13.  The system should an integrated high resolution TRT / LCD of 
15 inches (flicker free images) or more with facility of tilt and 
swivel facility along with convenient grip. 
14.  Should be supplied with three transducers (one each):  
Convex electronic phased array transducer: 2-6 MHz for 
abdominal imaging.  
Linear transducer: 5-12 MHz for vascular and small part 
imaging. 
Broadband Phased array cardiology transducer: 1-5 MHz for 
cardiac imaging 
15.  Convex and linear transducers shall have detachable reusable 
biopsy guides for different gauge needles 
16.  The system should have a frame rate of at least 600 frames per 
seconds (fps) in B mode and more than 300 fps in Color mode.  
17.  The system should have an ergonomic full alphanumeric soft 
keys keyboards with easy access scans control and trackball or 
touchpad. 
18.  The Systems should have cine loop review facility of not less 
than 60 sec/1000 frames.  
19.  System should have 120 GB or higher capacity internal HDD.  
20.  The system should have the facility of digital storage and 
01 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Portable Color Doppler Machine with USG                                                     Admn/Tender/89/2016-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
retrieval of B/W and colour image data.  
21.  Provision for USB port and LAN transfer of data should also 
be present.  
22.  The system shall support the all DICOM functionality, 
Storage, Print, and Work List, also ready to connect to PACS.  
23.  Imaging modes of Real time 2D, Colour Doppler, Pulsed wave 
Doppler and Power (energy) Doppler should be available.  
24.  Controls for 2D mode: Total gain, depth, TCG, dynamic range, 
acoustic power output.  
25.  Controls for Colour Doppler: PRF, colour gain, position and 
size of ROI, steering of ROI, colour maps and colour invert.  
26.  Controls for pushed Doppler: variable sample volume size 
from 1 to 5mm or more, steer, PRF, baseline, gain angle 
correction, spectral invert duplex on/off.  
27.  Measurements for 2D mode: Multiple distances, area and 
volume.  
28.  Measurement for Doppler modes: Stenosis quantification in 
area percentage, Diameter, PSV, EDV, means, PI, RI, 
acceleration time and index. Automatic and manual 
measurements and display of pulsed Doppler calculations 
should be possible.  
29.  Unit should function with 200-240 V, 50 Hz AC, 5 amp power 
outlet power requirement to be specified  
30.  In built battery backup should be at least one hour or more.  
31.  The unit offered must be sturdy and should be able to 
withstand accidental hits and falls during transportation.  
32.  The unit offered in the tender will require technical 
demonstration and training of users for at least 1 week.  
33.  Photocopy of purchase orders along with terms and conditions 
of contract received from five Govt. /Public Sector 
institution/college of repute in the last two years for supply of 
the offered equipment must be enclosed with the price bid.  
34.  Price of the main unit and accessories to be quoted separately.  
35.  Warranty: The unit transducers and all accessories should be 
covered with comprehensive onsite warranty for five (5) years 
commencing from the date of issue of installation certificate.  
36.  Rates for comprehensive maintenance contract CMC 
(including all spared and labour) for 5 years, after expiry of 
warranty period, must be quoted separately.  
37.  Company should have a Registered Service Centre in India 
with address and phone numbers. Company should give 
undertaking regarding the spare availability of the quoted 
model for next 10 years.  
38.  The bidder should enclose the original product data sheet, 
brochure and compliance sheet, without which the bid rejected. 
Computer generated data sheet brochure will not be accepted. 
The serial number of specifications must be indicated against 
the relevant portion of the compliance sheet and data sheet.  
39.  The unit should be United States Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) and Conformity Europeans (CE) 
approved.  
 


