--- Page 11 ---
Tender for 4 D Echo Machine with TEE Probe for Adult and Pediatric High Echo Cardiology System                              
Admn/Tender/150/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
Annexure-I 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
4 D Echo 
Machine with 
TEE Probe 
for Adult and 
Pediatric 
High Echo 
Cardiology 
System 
1. 
The system must be latest generation, highest end & technologically 
advanced Digital 4D (Live 3D) echocardiography system. Any other 
model other than the highest end and latest version is liable for 
rejection. 
2. 
System must be offered with a minimum of 8,00,000 digital 
processed channels. Original technical data sheet should be enclosed 
in technical bid to support the number of channels on the system. If 
not mentioned, please attach a letter from the manufacturer along 
with the technical bid clearly stating the digital processed channels of 
the offered system. 
3. 
System must have adult and Pediatric cardiology transducer with 
either single crystal technology or pure wave technology or matrix for 
excellent gray scale image quality on difficult to image patients. 
Please mention the technology used in the transducer. Original 
technical data sheet should be enclosed in technical bid to support the 
crystal technology. 
4. 
System must be offered with a minimum 21 inches high-resolution 
flat panel medical grade display monitor with nearly infinite position 
adjustments. Company should provide wider monitor if available 
5. 
System should have at least four imaging universal active probe ports 
with electronic switching facility from keyboard without probe 
adapter. 
6. 
System should be capable of supporting second-generation 4D (Live 
3D) matrix transducer capable of supporting a minimum of 2000 
elements for exceptional 4D (Live 3D) echo, 4D (Live 3D zoom), 
triggered full volume and triggered 3D color volume with electro 
cautery suppression. 
7. 
System should support broadband probes spanning a frequency of 1- 
15MHz. 
8. 
Image storing facility on in built hard disc or MOD/CD/DV-RW 
facility should be available. In built-in hard disk the capacity should 
be of minimum 1 TB or 5,00,000 images. System should have 
extensive image management capability including thumbnail review, 
cine loop editing etc. Need to provide 5 TB external Hard drive for 
data storage and should be compatible with system provided. 
9. 
System must be offered with Speckle reduction imaging: Image 
processing technique to remove speckles and clutter artifacts. 
10. System should have 4D (Live 3D) echocardiography capabilities with 
color flow imaging. 
11. System should be capable of scanning depth of 30cm. scanning depth 
should be clearly mentioned in the technical quote if not mentioned 
please attach a letter from the manufacturer along with the technical 
bid clearly stating the scanning depth of 30cm in the offered system. 
12. Should be able to perform advanced quantification measurements like 
strain & strain rate quantification. Should measure the myocardial 
velocity and derives the strain rate and strain along user defined M-
lines, capable of drawing up to 3M lines at a time, capable of sub-
dividing each M-line into 8 sub-regions or according to user defined 
sub-region sizes, point of interest tool obtains values from any point 
on the M-mode display. In addition to the Tissue Doppler based 
strain system should have 2D based strain like VVI, AFI, and TMQ 
should be offered. These should be offered both on the system and on 
a licensed workstation. OFF Cart workstation (both licensed 
01 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for 4 D Echo Machine with TEE Probe for Adult and Pediatric High Echo Cardiology System                              
Admn/Tender/150/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 12 
 
hardware and licensed software) should be offered and highlighted in 
the technical bid. 
13. System should be offered with user-friendly high-resolution user 
interface touch panel of minimum size of 10-11 inches and intuitive 
keyboard. User friendliness will be given preference. 
14. Should be able to perform MPR views for Quantification from 3D 
Imaging on Volume Measurements like LV volumes, Ejection 
fraction from 3D Image, etc. Also should offer 3D synchronicity 
indicates to measure and compare timing of maximum contraction of 
regional LV volumes. Should display global LV volume and should 
provide simultaneous display of 17 regional volume/strain waveform. 
This should be offered both OFFLINE as well as online. OFF-LINE 
workstation of Apple or equivalent brand (Both hardware and 
software) should be supplied and highlighted in the technical bid. 
15. The quantification capabilities should be offered OFF-LINE also. The 
system images should be transferred through DICOM to the OFF-
LINE licensed workstation. The workstation should have a DICOM 
Image Management System Software loaded so as to print images 
through a Colour laser printer. 
16. The system should have the facility of displaying the three planes of 
the 3D data set. 
17. Contrast harmonic imaging should be offered as standard on the 
system, with optimization for low and high MI applications. Should 
also have facility of low MI with triggered replenishment imaging. 
18. Integrated stress echo facility to perform stress echo exams. 
19. Should have the state of the art transmit Real Time Compound 
Imaging Technology with multiple transmitted lines of sight, wherein 
Multiple Coplanar Images from different viewing angles are obtained 
and combined into a single compound imagines at real-time frame 
rates for improved visualization. Should demonstrate and show 
multiple transmitted line of sight in linear probes.  
20. Should be provided with (One Each of) : 
1. Adult transthoracic 2 D probe {Phased array matrix transducer with 
Frequency ranging from 1-5 ± 1 MHz, of Single crystal or Pure 
Wave technology (System offered with normal transducer for Adult 
ECHO are liable for rejection)},  
2. Adult Transthoracic 3 D probe Phase Array matrix Transducer with 
Frequency ranging from 1-5 ± 1 MHz,  
3. Paediatric Transthoracic 2 D probe,  
4. Adult Transesophageal 3 D probe,  
5. Paediatric Transesophageal 2D probe ,  
6. Epi-aortic probe, vascular probe {Linear Array Matrix transducer 
with Frequency of 5-15 MHz}.  
7. Linear array Probe with frequency ranging from 4-11 ±2 Mhz. 
for Peripheral vascular 
21. Local Service Facility should be available at Jodhpur/Jaipur/Delhi 
NCR. 
22. System should provide with-  
a.) Latest PC of Apple or equivalent brand (off-line licensed 
workstation) with minimum 2TB Hard drive, 2x8 GB DDR 3 RAM, 
Intel i7- 3.5 GHz or higher processor, Two serial port, Minimum 4 
USB port, Inbuilt Bluetooth & Wi-Fi, 24” Touch screen LED 
Monitor, Keyboard, mouse, 10 or latest Windows professional or 
equivalent, licensed software for analyzing and quantification of 2D 
and 3D data sets, CD/DVD writer with Image Management Software 
and High End colour laser Printer with auto duplexing should be 


--- Page 13 ---
Tender for 4 D Echo Machine with TEE Probe for Adult and Pediatric High Echo Cardiology System                              
Admn/Tender/150/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 13 
 
supplied. PC should be supplied with the licensed software to work on 
the below features. 
i. Strain and Strain rate imaging. 
ii. Semi-Automated Border Detection. 
iii. Tissue Motion Annular Displacement. 
iv. Mitral Valve 3D data sets 
v. 2D speckle tracking  
(any other Hardware essential for OFFLINE Quantification)  
b.) Latest B/W Thermal Printer. 
c.) Two 3KVA online UPS with a backup of 30 min minimum, from 
APC or Emerson brand  
d.) One Mac OS Laptop with 512 GB or more hard drive. This should 
be supplied with the licensed software (if required option for dual 
boot should be provided) to work on the below features. 
i. Strain and Strain rate imaging. 
ii. Semi-Automated Border Detection. 
iii. Tissue Motion Annular Displacement. 
iv. Mitral Valve 3D data sets 
v. 2D speckle tracking (any other Hardware essential for 
OFFLINE Quantification)  
e.) ECG cable: two in numbers  
23. Should provide rates for 3D Transthoracic Paediatric Probe 
optionally. Quoted rate Will not be considered for comparison. Rate 
Justification for same needs to be provided with. 
24. System should have DICOM 3.0. System should have DICOM 3.0 
print and store service classes with support for modality, worklist, 
perform procedure set up, storage commit. 
25. Documentation 
1. Printed user/Technical/Maintenance manuals to be supplied in 
English. 
2. Certificate of calibration and inspection. 
3. Log book with instructions for daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly 
maintenance checklist. The job description of the hospital technician 
and company service engineer should be clearly spelt out. 
26. Warranty:  
CMC and AMC (period is prescribed elsewhere) should be inclusive 
of system as well as the all transducers. 
CMC should be unconditional and include all accessories including 
third party items. 
27. Other requirements 
1 Availability of spares to be ensured for minimum 10 years period 
2. Working Demonstration is must after installation. 
3. Two good quality, branded increased height chairs (revolving with 
back rest) to be provided for the echo-cardiographer. 
4. There should be one high quality large size table of reputed brand 
(eg. Godrej, etc.) to keep 
Workstation (computer & printer). 
5. 50 rolls of thermal paper to be provided for thermal printer. 
6. Colour Print Paper- 500 sheets 
7. One set of Color laser printer (compatible) cartridges, in addition to 
the supplied with printer. 
 
28. The system should be US FDA and European CE approved 
General Conditions 
1. It will be responsibility of the vendor to submit proposal of CMC at 
least 6 months before expiry of warranty of previous CMC. 


--- Page 14 ---
Tender for 4 D Echo Machine with TEE Probe for Adult and Pediatric High Echo Cardiology System                              
Admn/Tender/150/2017-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. In the technical bid the product should be quoted with a set of standard 
accessories.  The price bid must clearly state the accessories included.  
The price of optional accessories should be quoted separately. 
3. The product or its earlier model should have been marketed in the 
national and international market for at least 5 years. 
4. The parent company should certify that the quoted product is not going 
to be out of assembly line for at least three years from date of 
quotation. 
5. The parent company should give the undertaking to provide the spares 
during the warranty and CMC period if required. 
6. If the equipment is software based, and the new software is introduced 
within five years the up gradation will be provided free of cost 
7. Demonstration of quoted system/product with live case and demo of 
various modality and highlights of Machine by a Qualified person will 
be required (if needed) for technical qualification. Necessary legal 
permissions will procured by company. 
8. Training: The necessary training of the personnel for the use of the 
equipment will be provided by the company/vendor.  The vendor must 
mention the type of training i.e. on site or abroad and number of 
persons. 
Compliance statement.  The vendor must provide, in tabular form a 
comparative chart of the required technical specification and technical 
specification of the quoted product.  The vendor must give the relevant 
page number and paragraph number, in their literature regarding that 
technical information in the technical bid.  Merely stating ”complies” or 
”meets requirement” will lead to assumption that the quoted product does 
not have the required feature. 


