--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Portable X Ray Machine  
Admn/Tender/12/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Portable X 
Ray 
Machine  
General specifications: 
1. State of Art High frequency microprocessor controlled Portable X 
Ray system with integrated Computed Radiography system having 
following features: 
2. Compact, lightweight, easily transportable mobile High Frequency 
X-Ray unit for bedside x-Ray rays, trauma, Intensive care units, 
Operation theatres and Radiology department. 
3. The unit should be fully counter balanced and can be positioned to 
suit different bed heights. The unit should have facility of vertical 
swing and horizontal rotation of the tube head to ensure X- Ray of 
any anatomy even with in limited space. 
4. The unit must have an effective braking system for parking and 
transport. 
5. The exposure release switch should be detachable with a cord of 
sufficient length (at least 3 m) 
6. The Generator: 
a. Microprocessor controlled high frequency/inverter type of high 
frequency (80 KHz or more) for constant output. 
b. It should have power rating of at least 4kW or more 
c. It should have a digital display of mAs and kV. 
d. KVrange:40 kv to 100kVormore 
e. mArange:10 mA to 100mAormore 
f. KVselection: 40 kV to 100 kv, selectable in 1 kV steps 
g. mAS selection: 0.1 to 250 mAS 
h. It should have over loading protection. 
i. It should have APR feature 
7. X-RayTubeandCollimator: 
a. Stationary / Rotating anode having focal spot size less than 2mm 
b. Output of tube should match with that of generator. 
c. Light Beam diaphragm/ Double layer Collimator with auto cutoff 
switch. The light intensity shall be at least 160 lux at1mtr distance 
from focal spot. 
8. The unit should operate on single phase power supply and should 
have plug in facility to any standard wall outlet with automatic 
adaptation to line voltage 200 to 240volts, 15Amp plug. 
9. The Leakage radiation level at 1 meter from the focus should be less 
than 70 mR. Products having minimal leakage radiation level will be 
preferred. (Please attached relevant test report) 
10. The Systems should be fully safe with respect to 
a. Overcurrent 
b. Overvoltage 
c. Maximum loading of tube 
11. Power input to be220-240VAC, 50Hz fitted with Indian plug. 
12. The product should be CE or USFDA approved. 
Should bean AERB approved product 
01 


