--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Echocardiography Machine (Mid End)                                                          Admn/Tender/109/2016-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
         
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S. No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Echocardi
ography 
Machine 
(Mid End) 
1) The system should be a latest generation digital technology 
echocardiography machine (not an ultrasound machine) with all advanced 
imaging features. 
2) Capable of doing adult and pediatric echocardiography. 
3) Should have a high resolution TFT monitor of ≥10 inches. 
4) The system should have the facility for high-resolution 2D, M Mode, PW, 
CW, color flow imaging and tissue Doppler imaging. 
5) Should have color compare mode (color mode and normal gray-scale mode 
simultaneously). 
6) The system should have zoom facility. 
7) It should be an ultra-portable package, hand carrying machine. Total weight 
of the machine should not be more than 5 kg. 
8) There should be automatic image optimization. 
9) There should be four transducers; one dedicated for adult echocardiography, 
one for pediatric echocardiography, one TEE Probe for adult and one TEE 
probe pediatric echocardiography 
10) The system should have an easy to use control panel with alphanumeric 
keyboard, illuminated keys and status display. 
11) The system should have facility for gain adjustments. 
12) Data entry should be possible by key board. 
13) Should have image management facility with facility for direct storage of 
images and loops in the hard disk drive and options for review and edit 
images, loops and reports. 
14) The system should have the storage capacity for at-least 50 patients’ data 
with an option of removable storage and transfer image via USB ports. 
15) Should have ECG and respiratory phase input on screen. 
16) The system should measure all essential parameters like diameter, area, 
ejection fraction etc. 
17) Should have all possible software packages for calculations. 
18) System should be European CE marked or US FDA approved. 
19) The same machine must have been installed in India earlier and its 
satisfactory working certificate from at least three institutions has to be 
attached. 
20) Certificate from the primary manufacturer for maintaining the 
equipment/machine for at least ten years from installation has to be attached. 
21) The machine should come with required in-built electrical stabilizer and it 
should be compatible with the standard Indian electrical sockets. 
22) The machine should have battery back-up for at least 30 minutes. 
23)It should have standard electrical safety norms. 
24) The spare parts should be easily available and the technical staff should be 
available in Jodhpur or Jaipur. 
25) Demonstration of the machine if required is must and have to arrange in 
two weeks’ time. 
26) Should have user manual and service manual in English. 
27) The portable machine should come with a cart, mobile on four wheels 
(trolley) for easy movement, with facility to detach the machine from the cart 
easily for transportation. 
01 


