--- Page 27 ---
Executive Engineer (AC&R) NIT No. AIIMS/BBSR/ENGG/ACR/NIT/35     Page 27   (Signature of the Bidder with Seal) 
 
 
Technical Specifications for Modular Operation Theatre 
 
 
A 
Walls panels system 
 
 
The prefabricated Operating Room shall be of SS Sandwich as per its latest standards 
Cladding structure shall consist of insulated stainless-steel wall panels with total panel 
thickness between 50-60 mm. It shall be 0.8 mm thick, 304 grade stainless steel sandwich 
panel (both side 0.8 mm thick sheet), with core consisting of rigid polyurethane foam injected 
under high pressure with a minimum density of 40 kg/m3. 
The individual wall panels shall use the tongue and groove/suitable technology for joining two 
panels. No welding shall be allowed 
 
It shall have minimum number of junctions. The gaps between panels shall be suitably filled 
with metal filler/epoxy and sanded flush. 
 
Stainless steel plate shall be finished to fine grain surface, and treated properly to take 
antifungal paint. Paneling shall be easy to maintain, durable, antistatic/conductive and fire 
retardant. Clearance between inner panel and outer wall shall be sufficient to allow the 
maintenance personnel for service. This closed space shall be flushed continuously to 
eliminate dust and bacterial accumulation. 
 
Anti-bacterial paint shall be coated on the wall. Bidder shall maintain anti-bacterial paint 
during warranty and comprehensive maintenance period. Wall elements shall be resistant to 
all standard cleaning agents, disinfectants and fumigation agents. Panels shall be covered 
with protective sheath to prevent scratch during installation. 
 
The wall panels shall be CE/UL/ETL/US FDA/BIS/DIN 1.4301 certified/listed. Third party 
test certificate for SS from Government authorized material testing laboratory shall be 
provided at the time of pre-dispatch inspection/supply. 
Wall Corner: Angular corners made with a 130°-140° angular modular element with the same 
finish of the wall panels. Such unit is internally completed by a stainless-steel recovery duct 
formed by a single sheet/SMS, perfectly integrated and shelled in order to allow the correct 
element sanitization. A removable front panel allows both access to the canal behind either 
the regulation of the air flow between the lower and upper opening 
Sealing Gaskets/Material: Should be non-toxic silicone rubber/material around all the 
contact perimeters between the various materials, and the hermetically sealed gaps between 
modules, should ensure optimum space segregation and ensure that sterile air pressure 
values are maintained in the protected environment, this be being a fundamental prerequisite 
for guaranteed sterility. Should be seamlessly connected surface 
B 
Ceiling Paneling System: 
 
The prefabricated ceiling plates/cassettes shall be made up of SS 304 panels with sheet 
thickness of at least 0.8 mm sandwich panel (both side 0.8mm thick sheet) of PUF with 
minimum density 40kg/m3, matte finished and coated with antibacterial paint. It shall be from 
the same manufacturer as that of wall panel. Total thickness shall be 30- 40mm 
C 
Sterile Anti-bacterial Coating 
 
Anti-bacterial and Anti-fungus sterile coating will be applied on the SS finished walls & ceiling 
with at least 2-3 coats to achieve a thickness of minimum 200 micron. Before application of 
sterile allocating an appropriate primer will be applied. The Primer will be supplied along 
with the paint and will be imported. 
The primer will be applied prior to coating of Anti – bacterial & Anti- Fungus Sterlite paint an SS 
walls& ceiling. 2 to 3 coats will be applied to achieve a thickness of 200micrones. 
Sterile coating and primer will be applied on the surface by air-less spray gun. Sterile coating 
will be to withstand with commonly used cleaners in the operation rooms and even 
withstanding with regular steam cleaning. 
 
 


--- Page 28 ---
Executive Engineer (AC&R) NIT No. AIIMS/BBSR/ENGG/ACR/NIT/35     Page 28   (Signature of the Bidder with Seal) 
D 
Laminar Air flow system 
 
The ceiling filtration system shall be designed to ensure unidirectional distribution of sterile 
air in the surgical theatre to ensure cleanliness of all the area covered by the airflow. 
The laminar flow system shall comprise of thick extruded aluminum profiles frame and 
sealed gasket. The filters installed in the plenum shall be suitable for application for laminar 
flow and clean rooms. These filters shall meet following specifications: 
Separators: continuous thermo plastic chord 
Sealant: Polyurethane 
Gasket: 
One-piece 
polyurethane 
MPPS average efficiency: > 99.95% 3 
Micron DOP efficiency:> 99.99% 
Final 
pressure 
drops: 
600 
Pa(maximum) 
Maximum operating temperature: 600Celsius 
RH: 40-50% 
The ceiling system shall be equipped with “H 14” class HEPA filters positioned in the ceiling 
to achieve 0.25 m/s flow at the diffuser. 
Filtration ceiling system holding structure, filter frames and top plenum shall be made of 
aluminum/stainless-steel. 
The filtration ceiling system shall have diffuser/flow equalizer to achieve uniform and 
constant air distribution over the whole surface. It shall be CE/US FDA/ETL/UL /BIS 
certified/listed. 
The air management system shall be designed to achieve class 100 cleanliness with the 
following parameters: 
Bacteriological class=B (5 CFU/m3) 
 
Particle decontamination kinetics CP=5-minute ISO 
14644/1 or latest classification= ISO 5 
Third party validation shall be obtained from Government approved environment 
laboratory (after installation) 
Positive pressure shall be maintained inside the MOT to prevent contamination due to air from 
outside. 
The supplier shall provide test certificate for HEPA filter and laminar air flow systems from 
the original manufacturers. 
Size of laminar airflow system shall be minimum 8 feet X 8feet. 
It shall be CE/UL/US FDA/ETL /UL/ BIS certified/listed. 
Note: Prospective bidders are advised to coordinate with HVAC designer for information 
regarding CMH and AHU capacity. Total flow rate of filter bank shall match the CMH of 
AHU. 
 
 
 
 
E 
 
 
PERIPHERAL LIGHTING AND CLEAN ROOM LUMINARIES (LED TYPE) 
 
To provide peripheral lighting and clean room luminaries with illuminance of minimum 500 
Lux. These shall be minimum 8 in numbers for each MOT and shall be with optical 
antiglare system. 
Luminaries cover shall be made of highly resistant, disinfectant proof laminated safety 
glass/acrylic with stylish fine-grained surface. 
The white luminaries’ body shall be made of sheet steel/perfectly powder coated. 
Recess frames shall be airtight. The fitting shall be flush with the ceiling and shall be 
removable from top or bottom. The light fitting shall be uniformly and aesthetically 
distributed on the ceiling to provide uniform illumination in the MOT. Light shall not interfere 
when green mode endoscopy is performed. 
Peripheral lighting shall be done according to IP 65regulations. 
Control equipment for the general lighting and the light dimming shall be provided in the 
theatre control panel. 


--- Page 29 ---
Executive Engineer (AC&R) NIT No. AIIMS/BBSR/ENGG/ACR/NIT/35     Page 29   (Signature of the Bidder with Seal) 
 
F 
 
TOUCH SCREEN CONTROL PANEL: 30" or more 
 
The control panel shall be touch screen panel. This control panel shall work as the central 
control panel for the HVAC controls, instruction board, touch screen and ON/OFF of MOT 
light. It shall be CE/US FDA/ETL/UL/BIS certified/listed. 
The touch screen shall be wall mounted, stationed in the visibility line of the surgeon and 
MOT staff. The access height shall be convenient for the nurse to operate. 
The panel shall accommodate digital clock and the elapsed time indicator. 
The medical gas alarm shall indicate high and low gas pressures for each gas service 
(except for vacuum, for vacuum it shall be normal or low) present in the MOT including 
vacuum. This shall be supported by audible alarm also. The panel shall have an alarm mute 
(fault annunciation) facility. The sensors (pressure switches) shall be at the nearest isolation 
valve. 
It shall have control for general lighting: ON/OFF and dimming controls organized in groups 
to provide uniform illumination. 
 
On/Off operation of the operating light (major and satellite) shall be 
provided. Hands free telephone set with memory shall be located at onside. 
Temperature and humidity control for the room connected to the AHU (adjustable from the 
panel) shall be provided. There shall be a provision of MOT temperature adjustment from 
the controller (temp adjustment of +/-50C to be achieved within 5 minutes) wherever 
separate AHU is provided for each MOT. 
Digital room pressure indicator in cm of H2O or equivalent shall be provided (signal from 
pressure sensor shall be provided to indicate pressure differential between MOT and outside). 
 
HEPA filter bank differential pressure indicator shall be provided. 
The Control Panel shall be able to be integrated with HIS (Hospital Information 
System)/BMS. 
The Control Panel shall be able to display the Isolation Panel Alarm Conditions along with 
MGPS Alarms. 
 
 
 
G 
 
X-RAY FILM VIEWER 
 
LED type flat panel X-ray viewing panel shall be flicker 
free. This shall comply with relevant electrical safely 
codes. 
Mounting shall be flush with the wall to avoid dust accumulation and growth or organisms 
between wall and panel. 
The body shall be of extruded aluminum powder coated with bacteria resistant and 
disinfectant resistant finish. 
The diffuser on the front panel shall be a uniformly lit screen. 
Dimming electronic control shall be enclosed at the bottom of the cabinet. 
Proper spring-loaded film clip with rollers/holding button shall be provided to hold the films 
firmly and to remove the film without scratches. 
It shall consist of dual panel viewing screen (14"x17"each). 


--- Page 30 ---
Executive Engineer (AC&R) NIT No. AIIMS/BBSR/ENGG/ACR/NIT/35     Page 30   (Signature of the Bidder with Seal) 
H 
PVC FLOORING WITH SELF LEVELING 
 
Suitable self-levelling shall be done before PVC flooring to avoid undulation within the MOT. 
It shall be minimum 2 mm thick anti-static seamless PVC flooring. 
Floor shall be smooth, non-slip, impervious material conductive enough to dissipate static 
electricity but not conductive enough to endanger personnel from electric shock. 
Continuous roll of PVC flooring shall be used and joints shall be welded by special PVC 
thermal welding units using PVC welding bars of same colour. 
The sheets shall be highly durable and resistant to shock, scratch and indentation. The 
conductive material shall be uniformly impregnated as grains. 
It shall be inert to body fluids, chemicals and disinfectants and shall not be affected by 
temperature variation within the OT. 
The floor shall efficiently discharge electric charges up to 2kV. 
Flooring shall be done by skilled workers of accredited agencies authorized by the supplier 
ofPVCsheets.Theelectricalresistance(pointtoground)shallbewithin2.5x104to5x106 
Ohms. The floor shall not allow build-up of electrical charge beyond 100 Volts due to 
antistatic effect. The corners shall not be terminated sharply and concealed cove-former 
(aluminum) shall be used to overlap the wall panel to a height of approximately 25 mm and 
sealed perfectly and uniformly. Self-levelling compounds shall be used. 
The conductive copper grid laid underneath the PVC sheet shall be supported by liquid 
epoxy compounds allowed to set as a uniform and level surface. The copper strips to be 
made visible by grinding and no copper strip shall project more than 0.5mm above level 
surface to avoid damage to the PVC sheet. One earthing lead shall be brought out from 
every 150 sqft area and attaching it to the main earthing strip/ground. 
Copper grounding strips (0.5 mm thick, 50 mm width) shall be laid flat on the floor in the 
conductive adhesive and connected to copper strip of grounding. The connection from 
copper grid shall be brought out uniformly at places to form equipotential grid. 
Flooring shall be mechanically shock proof, scratch proof, flame retardant and antimicrobial. 
Corners shall be uniformly curved. 
Colour shall be uniform, pleasant and matching with ambience and as approved by the 
department. 
 
 
I 
HATCH BOX 
 
It shall be provided in each operation theatre to remove waste materials from the operation 
theatre to dirty linen area/corridor just adjacent to MOT. 
Each hatch box shall be equipped with two doors and the doors shall be operated 
electrically/motorized. 
The hatch shall be designed in such a way that only one door shall be openable at one time. 
The UV light shall be so installed that it is kept ON while both the doors are closed. This UV 
light has to be automatically turned off in case of opening of either of the doors. 
Indicators shall be provided on both sides of the MOT so that door open/close status can be 
monitored from both sides. 
Hatch Box material shall be SS 304grade. 
Length and width of the hatch box shall be minimum 600mm x600mm 


--- Page 31 ---
Executive Engineer (AC&R) NIT No. AIIMS/BBSR/ENGG/ACR/NIT/35     Page 31   (Signature of the Bidder with Seal) 
J 
SCRUB STATION (minimum size 1500mm) 
 
Compact surgical scrub sink shall be designed for use in MOT complex for pre-procedural 
scrub. Double sink combination shall be provided. 
Each fixture shall be fabricated from heavy gauge type 304 stainless steel (minimum 
thickness 1.5 mm) and shall be of seamless welded construction, polished to a satin finish. 
The scrub sink shall be provided with a front access panel which shall be easily removable 
for access to the water-controlled valve, waste connections, stopper sands trainers. 
Hands free operation shall include infra-red sensors with programmable adjustment. 
Thermostatic mixing, valve control shall be located behind the access panel and it shall 
maintain constant water temperature.  
Timing shall be adjustable to meet individual application requirements. 
It shall be provided with infrared sensors; thermostatic control taps with fail safe temperature 
controls. All units shall have reduced anti- splash fronts. Knee/foot operated switch shall be 
provided additionally. 
 
 
K 
HERMETICALLY SEALED DOORS 
 
Door sizes shall be as per below option and quantities will be as per BOQ 
Hermetically sealed doors size: 2.1 m x 2 m with Lead Line (As per AERB Norms) 
These shall be hermetically sealed, single sliding doors. 
The controller shall be capable of being operated by elbow switches/foot switches as well 
as touch less sensor. 
The track and its cover shall be in single piece of stainless steel/aluminum and the running 
surface for the top rollers shall be suitably angled to reduce resistance to movement. 
The door leaf shall be hung by means of hard plastic rollers of high quality with double 
bearing at the top. Rollers shall be provided under the stainless steel/aluminum track to 
enable smooth and noiseless movement. 
Opening and closing of the door shall be microprocessor controlled electro-mechanical 
movement. 
The door material shall be of SMS/ HPL. Colour shall match the interior and care shall be 
taken to make the leaf strong and lightweight. 
One shall be able to open and close the door effortlessly in case of failure of automatic 
mechanism. 
Door opening handle shall be strong and sturdy. Material of the handle shall be of SS 
(gloss/matte finish). Door shall be provided with high quality cylindrical/ ESPG lock. 
Door leaf shall have high quality synthetic rubber gasket with long life to ensure hermetic 
sealing (to maintain air pressure differential) with air tightness of 99.99% at a pressure of 
minimum 75Pa. 
The finished floor on either side of the door shall be perfectly level (maximum permissible 
difference + 1mm). 
The overall thickness of the finished door shall be 50-60 mm. The inner part of the door 
shall be filled with CFC free polyurethane foam thickness of about 48 mm. (Sealed airtight 
to prevent further ingress of any microbial organism). 
The door and controls shall comply with IEE regulation. All motors used shall be DC 
brushless/PMDC motors with essential isolation from mains. 
Door shall be with vision window 300 mm x 300 mm with double glazed panels and 
hermetically sealed. Door movement shall have minimum noise. 
The starting time after receiving the signal shall be adjustable between 0.5 to 10seconds. The 
door controller shall be CE marked. 
 


--- Page 32 ---
Executive Engineer (AC&R) NIT No. AIIMS/BBSR/ENGG/ACR/NIT/35     Page 32   (Signature of the Bidder with Seal) 
Test certificate for hermetically sealed door frame (factory test certificate) shall been closed 
with the pre-dispatch documents. 
 
L 
MOT LIGHT WITH CAMERA 
 
 
 
MOT light –LED 
MOT surgical lighting system shall provide an ideal combination of brightness, 
manoeuvrability and shadow resolution without sacrificing colour and accuracy through 
a consistent LED technology. Such lighting system shall have the following technical 
specifications: 
Number of light heads: Two 
Colour temperature range: 3800oK to 5000oK (±10%)-Variable colour temperature. Field 
size diameter: 20 to 28cm (+/-10%) 
Working range: 750 to 1100mm (+/-10%) 
Illumination level: minimum 160,000 lux (both for major dome and minor dome 
separately) Controls: control panel (two: one on the wall and other on dome) 
HD Camera System – 1080p/i 
Description: Integrated in-light camera system shall be integrated at the centre of one of 
the domes of this lighting system/third arm in order to capture images and video 
sequences of the open cases. 
Such a autofocus–lockable camera shall have the following specifications – 
a. Signal to noise ratio (S/N Ratio): >50 dB 
b. 
CCD/CMOS: 1/3” or1/2.8” 
c. 
Optical zoom:10X 
d. 
Digital zoom:12-15X 
e. 
Video output: HD, DVI, S-video and composite video 
f. 
White balance and gain: Automatic/Manual 
g. 
MOT light and Integrated Camera shall have a control through touch panel of the 
control equipment placed inside the operating room. 
M
. 
RECORDING SYSTEM and PACS (picture archiving & communication system) monitor 
 
 
 
 
Recording system shall be offered separately. Recording system shall be having one TB 
storage space. 
Data cable for communication from both pendants and monitors shall be laid down up-to 
outside of MOT in a patch port for future expansion for all MOTs where there is no 
integration. 
 
Patch panel for power and signal shall be laid down for 48-inch LED monitor at wall of MOT. 
Recorder shall be capable of recording video from other sources like microscopes, 
endoscopes etc., suitable provision for the same shall be made. 
Monitor: It shall be medical grade monitor. Its size shall be minimum 48 inch. It shall be 
integrated with hospital PACS. The MOT firm shall do the necessary coordination with 
hospital authorities   for   connecting   the   PACS   monitor   to   the   hospital   PACS.   If 
hospital/institute PACS is  not  available,  MOT  firm  shall  terminate  all  PACS  monitor 
connection to switch located in MOT corridor for further connection by the hospital. 
Monitor shall be flush mounted with suitable frame in MOT wall. Frame shall be 
openable/serviceable for service. 


--- Page 33 ---
Executive Engineer (AC&R) NIT No. AIIMS/BBSR/ENGG/ACR/NIT/35     Page 33   (Signature of the Bidder with Seal) 
N 
HD LED Flat Panel Monitor 
 
 
It shall be 30-32” medical grade high-definition progressive scan flat-panel monitors with ceiling 
mounted spring arm suspension to support high definition/HDTV progressive scan images 
and shall be able to support and display DVI/HDTV, RGBHV, S-video, composite video 
signals. Aspect ratio 16:9/16:10. Resolution: 1920X1080 or better. It shall meet IP 54 
regulations. 
The flat panel suspension shall be ready with the cables for integration of high-definition 
digital (DVI/HDTV), RGBHV (high resolution), SVHS(S-video), composite video signals to 
travel from the various sources of video like endoscopic camera, room camera, in-light 
camera, high definition flat panel monitors, while assuring apivore solution/signal. 
Monitor shall be capable of displaying from other sources like endoscope, microscope etc. 
Necessary provision for the same shall be made. 
O 
PENDANTS FOR ANESTHETIST 
 
Double arm moveable pendant for Anesthetist 
The pendants shall comply with NFPA 99C/HTM 02-01/DIN/EN/ISO 7396-1 as amended up 
to the last date of receipt of tenders. The support arms shall be extremely robust and 
revolve on high quality bearings, so that the pendant head glides smoothly and quickly to 
any desired position. 
It shall have double moveable arms (any combination) with total coverage of minimum 1800 
mm and minimum 330o. Each arm shall have ability of horizontal movement. 
Vertical 
movement shall be motorized and the arm height shall remain at a height greater than 6 
feet above floor level. 
Weight carrying capacity of the arm shall not be less than 180 kg and it shall have 
electromagnetic brakes. 
Each arm shall be capable of minimum 330o of rotation, which can be easily adjusted tosuit 
the desired mode of operation. 
The pendant shall  be  European  CE  Certified  with  4  digit  notified  body  number/US 
FDA/ETL/UL/BIS certified/listed. 
 
The Pendant Service Heads shall be modular with minimum 800mm head. The heads shall be 
capable of accepting a range of shelves, infusion poles, electrical switch/sockets, gas outlets 
and other required accessories. The Pendant Heads shall support the range of Physiological 
Monitor Mounting Solutions. 
The Pendant Service Heads shall be supplied with medical gas terminal units and 5A/15A or 
6A/16 A hybrid sockets. 
Pendant shall be supplied with outlets and probes as mentioned below. 
 
Oxygen outlets: 2number Vacuum outlets: 2 number 
Nitrous oxide outlet: 1 number Air (4 bar) outlets: 2 number AGSS outlet: 1 number Electrical 
sockets: 10 number 
Adjustable shelf with two rails one on each side: 3 number IV Fluid Pole with 4 hooks: 1 
number 
Data socket RJ-45: 2 number 
Pendant supplier shall provide cut-outs for Patch Panels in Integrated OTs (only for integrated 
OT). 
Anesthetist pendant shall have NIST connection for all gases to connect the MGPS system. 
 


--- Page 34 ---
Executive Engineer (AC&R) NIT No. AIIMS/BBSR/ENGG/ACR/NIT/35     Page 34   (Signature of the Bidder with Seal) 
 
P. 
PENDANTS FOR SURGEON 
 
The Pendants shall comply with NFPA 99C/HTM 02-01/DIN/EN/ISO 7396-1 as amended 
up to the last date of receipt of tenders. The support arms shall be extremely robust and 
revolve on high quality bearings, so that the pendant head glides smoothly and quickly to 
any desired position. 
Double moveable arms (any combination) with total coverage of min 1800 mm and 
minimum 330o.Each arm shall have ability of horizontal movement. Vertical movement 
shall be motorized and the arm height shall remain at a height greater than 6.5 feet above 
floor level. 
Weight carrying capacity of the arm shall not be less than 180 kg. It shall have 
electromagnetic brakes. 
Each arm shall be capable of minimum 330o of rotation, which can be easily adjusted to 
suit the desired mode of operation. 
The pendant shall be European CE Certified with 4 digit notified body number/US 
FDA/ETL/UL/BIS certified/listed under medical devices directive. 
The Pendant Service Heads shall be modular with minimum 800 mm head. The heads 
shall be capable of accepting a range of shelves, infusion poles, electrical switch/sockets, 
gas outlets and other required accessories. The Pendant Heads shall support the range of 
Physiological Monitor Mounting Solutions. The Pendant Service Heads shall be supplied 
with medical gas terminal units and 5A/15A or 6A/16 A hybrid sockets. 
Pendant shall be supplied with outlets and probes as mentioned 
below. O2 and MA4: One each 
Vacuum outlets: 2 number Air (7 bar) outlet: 01 number 
 
CO2 outlet: 01 number 
Electrical sockets: 10 number 
Adjustable shelf with two rails one on each side: 3 number 
Data socket RJ-45: 2 number 
IV Fluid Pole with 2 hooks: 1 number 
(Pole shall be capable of stacking 4 syringe pumps) 
Nitrous oxide outlet: 1number 
Pendant supplier shall provide cut-outs for patch panels in integrated OTs 
(only for integrated OTs). 
Surgeon pendant shall have NIST connection for all gases to connect the MGPS system. 
 
Q 
PRESSURE RELIEF DAMPERS (PRDs) 
 
Pressure relief dampers or over flow ports shall be provided in each room to prevent 
contamination of air from clean and dirty areas. 
Suitably sized air pressure relief damper shall be strategically placed, enabling differential 
room pressure to be maintained when doors are opened between clean and dirty areas. 
Counter-weight balancing system shall be provided in the PRD to maintain positive 
pressure inside the operation room. 
Air pressure stabilizers shall have unique capability of controlling differential pressure to 
close tolerance. The PRD shall remain closed at pressure below the set pressure and shall 
open fully at a pressure only fractionally above the threshold pressure. 
The frame, body and blade shall be of grade SS 304 stainless-steel. 
R 
OPERATING LIST BOARD 
 
It shall be made of ceramic having magnetic properties and shall be flushed to the wall of 
the MOT 
 
Writing Board as operating list Board of size- 1000x700x60deep 


--- Page 35 ---
Executive Engineer (AC&R) NIT No. AIIMS/BBSR/ENGG/ACR/NIT/35     Page 35   (Signature of the Bidder with Seal) 
S 
STORAGE UNIT 
 
The storage unit shall be made with at least 0.8 mm thick SS 304stainless steel 
panels. The shelves shall be of SS 304 stainless steel and removable for cleaning. 
The storage unit shall be divided in 2 or more parts and each part shall have individual 
glass doors with high quality locking system. 
The overall size shall be 200 cm X 120 cm X 35 cm (approximately). 
 
 
T 
INTERNAL HVAC DUCTING & EXHAUST SYSTEM 
 
 
 
The MOT firm shall execute all the HVAC ducting, return air grill and inter-connection for 
supply and return air inside them OT. 
All the ducting shall be of aluminum, insulated and shall conform to CPWD General 
Specifications for Heating, Ventilation and Air-Conditioning Works-2017 as amended up to 
the last date of receipt offenders. 
The return air cabinets shall consist of an openable grill and shall be 
cleanable. These cabinets shall have suction from bottom and top also. 
Designed flow rate shall not be less than 1000 m3/hour. Distribution of exhaust air volume 
shall be divided between fluff strainers to maintain the required pressure within the theatre 
without causing turbulence. 
Return air exhaust cabinet shall be made from SS 304. Also, it shall match perfectly with the 
ceiling system aesthetically. 
 
Hangers will be provided to ducts & will be suspended be means of G.I. coated rod & these will 
not be more than 2.5 mtrs apart. Thermal insulation size 19mm for supply and 13mm for return 
of nitrate with aluminum foil for supply & return air ducts. Joints will be lapped with Nitrile tape 
for better insulation. (Inside OT & Till AHU only). 
U 
Isolation Panel System (IPS) 
 
Isolation Panel System of minimum 20 kVA capacity shall be provided for every operation 
theatre to ensure the safety of staff and patient. System shall have isolators provided 
through leakage relays etc., if required, according to IEC recommendation. This unit shall 
be EN/European CE/UL/BIS/FDA/ETL listed/certified. These systems are to be 
commissioned by specialists. It shall be medical grade isolation panel. It shall have fault 
detection feature.  
It shall be compliant to CEI 64-8/IEC 60364-7-710/BS 7671 Standard as amended up to the 
last date of receipt offenders. 
It shall be compact and mountable on wall or flush on brick wall. 
Isolation panel system shall have facility to detect fault of leakage current for each circuit 
(minimum 12 circuits) and same shall be integrated with touch screen control panel of MOT 
and alarm status shall be displayed on the touch screen control panel. 
   V 
 
ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS 
 
Earthed equipment bonding of all exposed metalwork shall be provided. 
 
Power sockets within the Operating Theatres ancillary areas shall be matched to the rest of the 
hospital. 
Each wall of MOT shall have minimum 02 number 6A/16A hybrid switch sockets. One 32A 


--- Page 36 ---
Executive Engineer (AC&R) NIT No. AIIMS/BBSR/ENGG/ACR/NIT/35     Page 36   (Signature of the Bidder with Seal) 
  
industrial socket shall also be provided at any two walls as per IEC standard. 
Light fittings within the clinical areas shall be recessed LED type with control 
gear. Fittings shall conform to IP 65regulations. 
All equipment shall be fully and permanently labelled to identify and describe the function, 
operation and voltage of the apparatus concerned. Upon completion of the electrical 
installation, tests in accordance with relevant sections of the local wiring regulations shall be 
carried out and the results recorded. 
 
All switch sockets should be of Anti-bacterial type. 
 
    W 
MEDICAL GAS PIPE LINE INSTALLATION 
 
The MOT firm shall ensure that MGPS works inside the MOT are carried out as per HTM 02- 
01/NFPA 99C/DIN/EN/ISO 7396-1 as amended up to the last date of receipt of tenders. 
 
The MOT firm shall provide oxygen, air, vacuum, AGSS and nitrous oxide pipe line connections 
from the existing lines terminated outside the MOT. 
 
The MOT firm shall do installation, testing and commissioning of complete MGPS system inside 
the operation theatre including distribution piping, pendants, outlets and other essential 
accessories. 
 
Terminal units shall be gas specific and only accept the correct medical gas probe. Gas specific 
components shall be pin indexed to ensure that a correct gas specific assembly is accepted. 
 
Each terminal unit shall be identified by the appropriate recognized name or symbol, colour, 
coding and shape as per HTM 02-01/NFPA 99C/DIN/EN/ISO 7396-1 as amended up to the last 
date of receipt of tenders. Outlets shall be European CE with 4 digit notified body 
number/UL/ETL/US FDA/BIS certified/listed/CDSCO Registered. 
 
Copper pipes shall be of solid drawn, seamless, deoxidized, non-arsenical, half hard, tempered 
and degreased copper pipe. All copper pipes shall be degreased and delivered capped at both 
ends. The pipes shall be accompanied with manufacturers test certificate for the physical 
properties and chemical composition. The copper pipe shall comply with EN 13348 as amended 
up to the last date of receipt of tenders. The Copper pipe shall be BIS Kite marked. 
 
Copper pipe must have reputed third party inspection certificate (eg. Lloyd’s, TUV, SGS). 
 
Fittings shall be made of copper and suitable for a working pressure of up to 17 bar and 
especially made for brazed socket type connections. 
 
The copper fitting shall comply with EN 1254-1 as amended up to the last date of receipt of 
tenders. 
 
The brazing filler material shall comply with EN 1044 as amended up to the last date of receipt 
of tenders. 
    X 
Site Modifications 
 
The MOT firm shall carry out following site modification works: 
 
Construction of 230 mm brick wall with plaster on both sides and paint matching the 
surrounding premises as per CPWD Specifications (Vol. 1 & Vol. 2) as amended up to the last 
date of receipt of tenders. Payment shall be made as per actual. 
Demolition of brick wall. Payment shall be made as per actual. 
75 mm thick cement concrete flooring for MOT. 
Any minor demolition, reconstruction, water proofing, necessary plumbing, anti-microbial 
painting, replacement of any door or windows within the MOT area shall be carried out by the 
MOT firm for successful installation and commissioning of MOT. 
All jobs such as providing cut outs, PRD, hatch, shifting and resizing of door/window up to 300 
mm etc. with all minor repairing works inside the MOT area for successful completion of MOT 
works. 
 
 


--- Page 37 ---
Executive Engineer (AC&R) NIT No. AIIMS/BBSR/ENGG/ACR/NIT/35     Page 37   (Signature of the Bidder with Seal) 
 
 
 
Comprehensive Maintenance 
A 
The contractor shall be responsible for defect liability, OEM warranty of products and 
comprehensive maintenance of MOT installations for five years from the date of 
completion (1year warranty + 4-year annual maintenance) of the work through the same 
MOT firm. The comprehensive maintenance of MOT installations includes complete MOT 
installations, labour, spares, all consumables and filters etc. as required including the 
following. No additional cost can be claimed for any consumable or any spares or labours 
other than quoted value. All consumable products include the filter during the defect liability 
period is included in the cost of the equipment’s. 
 
1-year warranty and defect liability period for whole installation will be reckoned from the 
date of successful handing over of MOT. During defect liability period comprehensive 
maintenance and rectification of all defects is to be carried out free of cost. Which includes 
 
All motors. 
 
Plastic and glass parts against any manufacturing defects. 
 
All kinds of sensors, coils, probes, PCB and transducers. 
 
Air-conditioners, HEPA filter periodic changes/Validation as per NABH or other guidelines. 
 
All kinds of painting, civil, HVAC, E&M part of equipment’s and electrical work. 
 
Preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/service /operational 
 
manual of the manufacturer. 
 
MGPS installation inside the MOT. 
 
In the case of MOT equipment, the comprehensive maintenance shall be done with back-to- 
 
back support from OEM. In such cases, authorized agent of OEM shall reach the site within 
 
24 hours of raising a service call. 
 
The MOT firm shall ensure uninterrupted service without compromising functioning of 
 
MOT/ICU. 
 
The MOT firm shall set-up a maintenance base in the vicinity of the hospital, to provide 
 
maintenance service of the entire MOT installations. 
 
If the performance of any individual equipment or system is not satisfactory, the same shall 
 
be replaced free of cost. 


--- Page 38 ---
Executive Engineer (AC&R) NIT No. AIIMS/BBSR/ENGG/ACR/NIT/35     Page 38   (Signature of the Bidder with Seal) 
  
If it is found that to meet the performance criteria, any extra equipment is required, the 
same shall be provided free of cost. 
All faults and their rectification shall be promptly intimated to the hospital. 
Any lacunae noticed in the functioning of the installation as a result of any design feature 
shall be rectified free of cost. 
Proper marking has to be made for all spares for identification like printing of installation and 
repair dates. 
On receipt of any complaint, the MOT firm shall, within 8 hours on a 24(hours) X 7 (days) 
X365(days) basis respond to take action to repair or replace the defective goods or parts 
thereof free of cost. The MOT firm shall take over the replaced parts/goods after providing 
their replacements and no claim, whatsoever shall lie on the hospital/institute for such 
replaced parts/goods thereafter. The penalty clause for non-rectification will be applicable 
as per tender conditions. 
 
Upon failure of the MOT firm to respond to take action to repair or replace the defect(s) 
within 8 hours on a 24(hours) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis, the hospital/institute may 
proceed to take such remedial action(s) as deemed fit by the hospital/institute, at the risk 
and cost of the contractor without prejudice to right of Government to take other remedial 
actions under the agreement. 
The remedial measures undertake by the AIIMS in terms of any financial measure or 
administrative measure in binding on all the agencies on account of failure to respond to 
attend the defect in time. 
The contractor/MOT firm along with the Indian agent of the manufacturer shall ensure 
continued supply of the spare parts for the machines and equipment supplied by them for 5 
years from the date of completion of the work. 
 
The payment of comprehensive maintenance will be made on six monthly basis after 
satisfactory completion of said period duly certified by end-user. 
The contractor shall ensure regular updates of newer technology as and when evolved 
during warranty period for all the equipment. 
The contractor shall deposit performance guarantee @ 5% of the value of the 
comprehensive 
maintenance 
contract 
before 
commencement 
of 
comprehensive 
maintenance, which shall be held by the hospital/institute till completion of comprehensive 
maintenance period. 
 
B 
AIIMS will enter in to separate supplementary agreement for comprehensive maintenance 
after the completion of defect liability period, if AIIMS find the conditions are suitable to 
them. 
C 
2 lacs from total PG amount and SD will be released only after successful supplementary 
agreement made between the AIIMS and same MOT agency, if MOT agency backs out 
from the comprehensive maintenance as per agreement conditions then amount of 2 lacs 
will be forfeited. In case AIIMS doesn’t want to enter into any supplementary agreement 
after defect liability period then on receipt of letter from AIIMS the whole PG and SD amount 
will be released to the MOT agency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


