--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Portable USG with Echocardiography Probe                                               Admn/Tender/198/2017-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
 
Annexure-I 
 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Tender for  
Portable USG 
with 
Echocardiogra
phy Probe 
1. Unit should be able to give high quality images with advance technologies 
like compound imaging with at least 5 sights of lines for better cardiac 
contrast resolution, tissue differentiation and edge detection, equivalent to 
high end cart based systems. 
2. System should be able to support speckle reduction imaging for better 
tissue differentiation and edge enhancement. 
3. System should have both online (Read) as well as offline (Write) zoom 
facility. 
4. Imaging modes of Real time 2D, Colour Doppler, Pulsed wave Doppler, 
Continuous wave Doppler, Power Doppler must be available on all cardiac 
transducers. 
5. System must have fast start up to scanning in less than 30 seconds from 
off condition, for use in critical and emergency situations.  
6. System should support transducer technologies like TEE (Trans-
esophageal echo), phased array, convex, linear etc.  
7. Cine memory on all modes.  
8. The system shall process a dynamic range that is at least 165db. The 
system must display at a maximum depth of 35 cm. 
9. The system must have a dedicated cardiac calculation packages with 
PISA, TDI calculation packages and vascular calculations package. 
10. The unit must be compact, portable and lightweight, weighing less than 5 
kg.  
11. Unit must be sturdy, resistant to breakage & damage on  hit against the 
wall or hard surface.  
12. Flat LCD/ TFT monitor of at least 15 inches with flicker free image. 
13. Alphanumeric soft keys keyboard with easy access scans controls, 
facility to sanitize the system including keyboard to avoid cross-
contamination.  
14. The system must have the ability to function by AC/DC or battery power 
with the same degree of functionality, the battery life (run time) shall be al 
least 2 (Two) hours, this need to be demonstrated.   
15. The system must have archive capability for storage and retrieval of 
images and clips data. 
16. The system shall support the all DICOM functionality, Storage, Print, 
and Work List, also ready to connect to PACS. 
17. System should possess software for Enhanced Needle Visualization to 
track the needle clearly at steep angles during the procedures while 
maintaining striking image quality of the target structures and the 
surrounding anatomy with simple On/Off functionality. This Facility should 
be available on both High frequency Linear and Curvilinear probes for 
superficial as well as deeper blocks. 
18. The system and transducers should be both USFDA and European CE 
certified. 
19. Following transducers to be supplied as standard   
a. Curvilinear 2-5 MHz +/-1 with foot print size 50-60 mm for Nerve, 
abdominal & FAST applications. 
b. High Frequency Linear transducer 6-12 MHz +/-1 with foot print in 
between 35-40 mm for vascular access, small parts, Nerve Blocks.  
c. 1-5 MHz +/-1 broad band phased array transducer18-22 mm for cardiac 
applications. 
d.5-12 MHz +/-1 with foot print size less than 30 mm broadband linear array  
for vascular, nerve, superficial, and venous ultrasound 
e. Mobile Cart with transducer holder.  
20. The firm must have minimum of 25 installations of the same model in 
India, attach list of installations, and also provide performance certificates. 
01 


