--- Page 47 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/Multimode Microplate Reader and Fluorometer 
 
Page 44 of 64 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of Multimode Microplate Reader 
and Fluorometer  
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. 
Warranty: 5 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ 
quotation clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the 
firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
 
SPECIFICATIONS FOR INSTRUMENTATION FOR NEWBORN SCREENING ON 
DRIED BLOOD SPOTS/ Multimode Microplate Reader and Fluorometer  
 
 
1. Instrument should be capable of carrying out Newborn screening from dried blood 
spot sample. 
2. The system should be capable of carrying out the following assays in Newborn 
screening -G6PD, TSH.T4, IRT, PKU, BIOTINDASE, GALT, TOTAL GALACTOSE & 
17α-OHP. All assays should be also certified- USFDA/ CE IVD  
3. The system should work on the principle of time Resolved Fluorometry (TRF) 
which is accepted globally and is proven, and time tested. 
 4. The system must be validated and published on population and at least 3 studies 
should be supplied for the same.  
5. The Fluorometer instrument should be supplied with all needed accessories like 
Automated 
dried 
blood 
spot 
puncher 
with 
workstation(software), 
Plate 
shaker(220/240V), washer- disk remover, Plate dispense, Dispense unit, Microplate 
Incubator Shaker, Platewash; Automatic strips washer, Aneuploidy Risk assessment 
software, SGE with pre-installed workstation [SOFTWARE] for NBS result 
Interpretation & data-management required for NBS.  
6. The system must have at least 3 installations in government institutions of India 
and provide user list with contact details of the quoted instrument. 


--- Page 48 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/Multimode Microplate Reader and Fluorometer 
 
Page 45 of 64 
 
7. Newborn Screening Software should be IVD-certified. 8 Software should provide 
facility to enter and track patient and contact information, create and maintain rules 
related to the creation and content of patient reports and statistical information of 
monitor the performance of the program. 
9. Software should allow user to enter additional information about a patient, 
specimen, determination or a case. This information must be viewed, entered and 
modified if required in various places throughout the application. 
10. System should have barcode reader for plates and regents, both. 
11 System should be capable of multipoint calibration with facilities to store the 
calibration curves and recalibration. 
12. The system should be supplied with informatics solution to automate the full 
work-flow of NBS lab-data entry to report generation. 
13. System should have the capability to do maternal fetal markers for aneuploidy 
screening additionally 
14. Supplier must supply allthe required accessory instrument for Prenatal screening 
(if any additional required). 
15. The supplier should have the FMF-approved Risk Calculation Software for 
chromosomal aneuploidy screening 
16. The system should be USFDA/CE-IVD/EU Certified. 
17. The system should have easy to perform and maintain Quality control options 
 18. The reagents to be supplied should have the essential certification and 
certificates. 
19. The reagent kits must contain all the required materials to perform the tests, 
including the Quality Control materials. 
20. The system must have informatics system, wherein complete information about 
Kits, events (log files), Patient-results and Quality-controls could be stored for users 
to view, as and when required. 
21. System must have the capability to perform all the Prenatal Screening markers-
free hCGß , PAPP-A, uE3, AFP, PIGF.  
22. Should provide onsite training till the technical personal familiarizes with the 
instrument. 
 
 
 
 
• 
Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 


