--- Page 39 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/ R/CS/DENT/CBCT/GTE/2024 
39 
 
Section VII 
Annexure-I 
Technical Specifications of 
Cone Beam Computed Tomography Machine (CBCT)with Cephalostat 
                                                                      Specification 
 
The CBCT machine with a Cephalostat should be capable of capturing high-quality 3D images of the 
patient's skull and jaw in a single scan. The machine should also be user-friendly and easy to operate by 
the medical staff. 
 
1. Imaging System: 
 
1.1. 
Should have 3D cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) system. 
1.2. 
The unit should have automatic selection of radiological parameters as per patient             
requirements. 
1.3. 
It should be capable 3D volumetric imaging in axial, coronal and sagittal planes.  
1.4. 
The unit should have automatic selection of radiological parameters as per patient 
requirement. 
1.5. 
It should have push button / touch screen operating controls with graphic user interface. 
1.6. 
The remote operating control should preferably be mounted outside X- ray room. 
1.7. 
It should have Emergency stop button. 
1.8. 
CBCT Machine and all accessories should confirm to National and International standards. 
1.9. 
CBCT machine should be AERB certified and registered. 
1.10. The unit should have a gantry with latest technology that should enable complicated 
movements and versatile imaging geometries. 
1.11. System should work on Amorphous Silicon/ CMOS/CCD sensor with Flat Panel 
Technology for all 3 Modalities 2D, 3D and Cephalometry  
1.12. Field of view (FOV): The FOV volume size should be within the range of 16 x16cm  to 
30x30 cm, smallest FOV should be available from 4x4 cm or smaller.  
1.13. Users should be able to adjust the size and location of the FOV easily. 
1.14. The Voxel Size Should be in the range of 75 To 600 µM. 
1.15. Grayscale 14-bit or more 
1.16. It should have the possibility to measure 3D volume.  
1.17. It should have wide range of volume size selections. 
1.18. It should have image acquisition angle 200/360° 
1.19. It should have metal artifact removal technique. 
1.20. It should have noise removal filter.  
1.21. Should have the following Programs.  
i. 
3D programs like teeth, jaw, face, skull 
ii. 
Panoramic 2D program 
iii. 
2D Tomographic/Sectional Views 
iv. 
2D lateral and PA TMJ program 
v. 
3D nose diagnosis program 
vi. 
3D sinus program  


--- Page 40 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/ R/CS/DENT/CBCT/GTE/2024 
40 
 
vii. Middle ears programs  
viii. Temporal bones programs 
ix. 
Vertebrae program  
x. 
Airway study program  
xi. 
Cephalometric imaging         
xii. It should be able to scan models, impressions, and plaster casts.  
1.22. Scan time: Maximum Scan time of less than 40 seconds. 
1.23. Reconstruction time: Reconstruction time of not more than 60 seconds. 
2. X-ray unit 
 
1.1. 
High-frequency generator with constant potential  
1.2. 
The anode voltage should be 60-120kv for better clarity. 
1.3. 
The anode current should be 1-16 mA. 
1.4. 
The focal spot size should be 0.5x0.5mm or less. 
1.5. 
The unit should have low dose technique for exposure. 
1.6. 
Automatic exposure control (AEC) 
1.7. 
Automatic dose optimization (ADO) 
 
3. Patient Positioning: 
 
3.1. 
The unit should have feature of inbuilt face scanning. Should have support with inbuilt 
software for  
3.1.1. Live patient view and recording  
3.1.2. Creating the virtual patient and managing 2D and 3D files  
3.1.3. HD face scanning. With more details and perfect for capturing volumes and 
measurements  
3.2. 
The Unit Should Have Movement Correction Algorithm  
3.3. 
Should have the latest and advanced patient positioning mechanism with proper adjustment 
to FH plane. 
3.4. 
The unit should have advanced head support with 3 laser guides ( Frankfurt,  sagittal and 
canine) projected on the face ensure excellent patient stability and precise patient 
positioning with Chin rest and Bite block for consistent bite registration 
3.5. 
It should have a dedicatedhead support for better stability without compromising patient 
comfort. 
3.6. 
It should have patient positioning face to face with live video patient positioning system, the 
unit’s sensor should have atleast four built-in cameras and LED light strips for capturing 
highly detailed 3D photographs. Then these should combine with the patient’s CBCT image 
to enrich both treatment planning and patient communication. 
3.7. 
3D Photo Face feature: The unit must have 3D face scanning inbuilt to scan a 3D face photo 
of the patient. Face scan should be possible to be superimposed with CBCT data 
3.8. 
Wheelchair compatible: should be possible both in sitting and standing mode. 
 
4. Cephalostat. 
 
4.1. 
Should have a dedicated cephalostat with a separate CMOS/CCD Sensor for 2D and Ceph 
modality. 


--- Page 41 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/ R/CS/DENT/CBCT/GTE/2024 
41 
 
4.2. 
Motorized movement for precise positioning and should have laser positioning facility for 
accurate patient positioning. 
4.3. 
Automatic landmark tracing and cephalometry analysis should be possible: Steiner, Tweed, 
Rickett'setc. Automatic ceph report generation should be possible 
 
5. Image  
 
5.1. 
It should have possibility to export and import 3D images in STL and DICOM format. 
5.2. 
Possibility to super impose 3D images before and after the treatment for comparison.  
5.3. 
It should have 2D panoramic generated from 3D volume. 
5.4. 
Should have Metal Artifact Suppression feature that Reduces metal artifacts, should have 
the ability for users to perform live comparison of images—with and without metal artifact 
filters 
6. Software  
 
6.1. 
Should provide with licensed software which is latest and upgraded free of cost during the 
warranty and AMC/CMC period. 
6.2. 
Should install necessary software in all the computers (20 Computers) in the department 
through LAN, so that the images can be accessed and worked upon chairside.  
6.3. 
It should compatibility with MacorWindows operating system 
6.4. 
The post processing features in the software should include.  
6.5. 
Modules required.  
 
6.5.1. 
Dental Smile designing Module. 
6.5.2. 
3D implantology Module  
i. Implant planning software compatible with popular implant planning models 
ii. Nerve canal and other anatomical structure (root canals, periodontal bone) 
estimation 
6.5.3. 
Cross sectional slices (multiplanar) 
6.5.4. 
Threshold selection 
6.5.5. 
Segmentation and 3D modelling 
6.5.6. 
Panoramic view mapping 
6.5.7. 
TMJ analysis 
6.5.8. 
Airway assessment 
6.5.9. 
Magnification or zoom to visualize the images  
6.5.10. 
Density (HU)calculations 
6.5.11. 
Labeling 
6.5.12. 
Multi-color tone selection facility for better image visualization 3D clipping (cropping 
facility) 
6.5.13. 
High contrast mode for hard tissue (bone, enamel dentin) display Measurement tools 
(linear and angular) 
6.5.14. 
True size reconstruction for jaw, cranium, or any smallvolume as desired by operator at 
later time 
6.5.15. 
Facility for simultaneous display of PAN, CEPH and cross-sectional images  
6.5.16. 
Upgradable for integration with third party CAD CAM system.  
6.5.17. 
Dental PACS 


--- Page 42 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/ R/CS/DENT/CBCT/GTE/2024 
42 
 
7. Computer hardware of high specifications compatible with machine for image processing, 
archiving, and printing 
 
7.1. 
CD/DVD drive 
7.2. 
Processor: Compatible with machine software Intel Core i9 14th Gen Processor or above 
7.3. 
Operating system: Compatible with the machine and genuine licensed latest software, 
windows 11 PRO or above (latest). 
7.4. 
RAM: 32 GB and above 
7.5. 
Graphics card: Dedicated 16 GB and above. 
7.6. 
USB ports.: Type A atleast 4 Ports and Type C atleast 2 Ports  
7.7. 
Hard disk capacity of at least 16 TB 
7.8. 
Medical grade flat screen monitor with high resolution (27inches or above) 
7.9. 
The display matrix should be at least 1920 x 1200. 
7.10. 
DICOM facility to send, store, print, receive, Query /Retrieve, 
7.11. 
MWM, MPPS etc. should be standard. 
7.12. 
Should be supplied with One Colour Laser Jet printer.  
i. Should have print scan and copy facility.  
ii. Should have a dpi 600 or above. 
iii. Should have Wi Fi connectivity.  
iv. Colour Cartridge should be supplied for at least three years. 
v. HP, Canon or equivalent  
7.13. 
One DICOM Printer compatible with Unit to be supplied with the Unit.  
i. Should be with Dry view Printing Technology  
ii. Should be compatible for different image size (8x10, 6x12, 14x17 etc.)  
iii. Should have True laser technology (Photo thermographic)  
iv. Should have Greater than 600 laser pixel per inch.  
v. Should be able to integrate with Hospital PACS  
vi. AGFA, Care stream, Fuji or Equivalent  
 
7.14. 
Should be supplied with a Server as per the requirement of the supplied equipment.  
7.15. 
Furniture: 
i. High Quality wooden/SS Furniture and two comfortable Chairs as per location for 
workstation and DICOM Printer. Two SS almirah’s for record keeping and storage 
purpose. 
 
8. Installation and Site Modifications  
 
8.1. 
The installation site is in the theDepartment of Dentistry AIIMS Raipur. 
8.2. 
The equipment needs to be installed as per the AERB requirements. 
8.3. 
Any alterations and additional requirements to fulfill AERB Norms at the installation site 
needs to be carried out by the vendor.  
8.4. 
Site details and modifications required: 
8.4.1. The allocated site/room for installation of CBCT is of the size 10.8X10.8 sq feet area 
with an 9inch wall and lead lined door as per the AERB requirements  
8.4.2. The bidder is expected to undertake only internal modification to create a separate area 
for console/reporting and exposure/equipment/shooting area with partition compliant 
with AERB guidelines 


--- Page 43 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/ R/CS/DENT/CBCT/GTE/2024 
43 
 
8.4.3. The separation between the areas shall be incorporating AERB compliant see-through 
glass of 4x3 feet in two of the walls created for better visualization and light 
ventilation. 
8.4.4. All the furniture for the CBCT room should be included in the tender shall be branded 
and of high quality. 
8.4.5. Any required electrical, LAN, Civil alterations need to be considered for proper 
installation of the equipment as per the guidelines or OEM requirements. 
8.5. 
Periodic annual renewal of AERB documentations / Quality Certifications for the 
equipment and the room during the warranty and AMC/CMC period is the responsibility of 
the bidder. 
 
9. UPS 
 
9.1. 
Online UPS for the whole equipment and the accessories and workstation to support atleast 
30 minutes backup. 
 
10. Certification  
Product should be CE European/USFDA/BIS approved. 
 
11. Warranty  
 
11.1. 
5 years onsite warranty  
11.2. 
48 hours downtime  
11.3. 
Warranty: 5 years warranty without any exclusion from the date of installation for both 
equipment, accessories, and stabilizer/UPS with battery +5 years comprehensive 
maintenance contract without any exclusion for both equipment, accessories and 
stabilizer/UPS (if supplied) with battery.  
11.4. 
The cost of warranty and CMC will be included in the total cost of financial comparison. 
Original literature of equipment should be submitted.  
11.5. 
User's list should be provided with a satisfactory report for the last three years from three 
users with contact details. 
11.6. 
BIS/ISOEuropean CE / USDA certification specific for the product should be submitted. 
12.  
Service and Maintenance  
12.1.1. Mandatory 6 monthly periodic maintenance of the whole equipment and installation during 
the warranty period and CMC/AMC. 
12.2. 
During the Warranty & CMC period, the supplier / firm must provide Annual calibration 
and preventive maintenance as well as routine services every 6 months. 
12.3. 
After sales services must be provided at AlIMS, Raipur (at installation site). In situations 
requiring service or repair of the unit outside AIMS, Raipur and commissioning, the 
expenditure on the account of this will have to be borne by the supplier. 
13. Training. 
 
Mandatory training to the whole department initially and every 6 months for new joining for next 
five years. 
14. Demonstration  
Demonstration of the equipment needs to be arranged by the bidder to the technical experts 
nominated by AIIMS Raipur on their own cost. 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 44 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/ R/CS/DENT/CBCT/GTE/2024 
44 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. Warranty: 
a) Five years Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE document for complete 
equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will 
be 5 years from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work from the date of 
satisfactory 
installation, 
commissioning, 
trial 
run 
& 
handing 
over 
of 
equipment 
to 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 98% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty period by double the downtime 
period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty period. 
2. After Sales Service: 
After sales service centre should be available at the city of Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 
(days) X 365 (days) basis. Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service should be 
provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the Principals that the spares for the equipment shall 
be available for at least 10 years from the date of supply. 
3. Training: 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ Indian Agents (if they have the 
requisite know-how) for operation and maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The 
same will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical specification. 
4. Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment with Site Modification Work: 
a) The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes preventive maintenance including 
testing & calibration as per technical/ service /operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, 
after satisfactory completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on yearly basis for 
complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site 
Modification Work (if any). The supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended in the 
manufacturer’s technical/ service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 preventive 
maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the CMC period 
b) The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of Tender Opening. The taxes to be 
paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive 
of such taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
c) Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be taken at Net Present Value 
with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory completion of said period, duly 
certified by end user on receipt of bank guarantee for 5% of the cost of the CMC contract value as per 
Section XV valid till 2 months after expiry of entire CMC period.  
e) There will be 98% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis, with 
penalty, to extend CMC period by double the downtime period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at least twice in 6 months (i.e. 
4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the 
successful completion of warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of the Bank Guarantee for 
Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 45 ---
 
 
Tender No. AIIMS/ R/CS/DENT/CBCT/GTE/2024 
45 
 
5. Site Modification Work: 
Site Modification Work is indicated in the technical specification of the respective items, wherever required. The 
Tenderer shall examine the existing site where the equipment is to be installed, in consultation with HOD of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College 
concerned. 
Site 
Modification 
Work 
details 
of 
each 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College are given at the end of Technical Specification. The Tenderer to quote prices 
indicating break-up of prices of the Machine and Site Modification Work of each Hospital/Institution/Medical 
College. The Site Modification Work costs to be quoted in Indian Rupee will be added for Ranking Purpose. 
The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken 
inclusive of such duties and taxes and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
The Site Modification Work should completely comply with AERB requirement, if any. 
Note1:Tenderer‟s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The tenderer is to provide 
the required details, information, confirmations, etc. accordingly failing which its tender is liable to 
be ignored. 
Note 2: General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of equipment for carrying out 
routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked for and should make sure that Electrical Safety 
Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS 
Safety Standards IS-13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 60601 is a 
part of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they should provide a 
commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety compliance with Electronic Regional 
Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development Centres across the country on every preventive 
maintenance call. 
Note 3:Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface interoperability 
conditions for networked equipment in hospital management information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical training for 
personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at the institute immediately after 
its installation. The company shall be required to train the institute personnel onsite for a minimum 
period of 1 month 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC period 


