--- Page 18 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/RDG/18/19/OT 
 
Page 18 of 26 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
DETAILED TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR 
Technical Specifications for a Very High end Ultrasound machine  
With Real time Shear Wave Elastography on a buy back basis (One units) 
 
The system should be state of the art with full digital technology and should be for Abdominal, 
Renal, Pelvic, Genitourinary, Breast (2D and 3D), Vascular, Obstetrics, Thyroid, and MSK 
Imaging Applications.  The specific minimum requirements for this equipment are as follows: 
S.No. 
Tender Specification 
Compliance 
Yes/No 
1 
The system should be capable of high-resolution 2D, 3D, M, PW, 
Color flow, Power & Directional Power Doppler, Pulse Wave 
Doppler and Panoramic imaging mode.  
 
2 
It should have contrast imaging and real time shear wave 
elastography modes. 
 
3 
The system should have 60000 or more digital processing 
channels. 
 
4 
Transducers should be of  broadband technology. 
 
5 
The system should have a dynamic range of 180 dB or more.  
 
6 
System should offer Imaging depth of 30cms or more. 
 
7 
The system should have a frame rate on receive of over 5000 
frames per second or more. 
 
8 
The system should have advanced color Doppler facility to position 
at least three spectrograms (online or offline) on a single image 
within the same cardiac cycle to simplify the workflow and reduce 
the examination time for Vascular application. 
 
9 
System should have Panoramic Imaging with at least 60cm of 
scanning length. It should have skin line scaling markers, curved 
distance measurement tool and Zoom, Pan, Rotate & Trim facility 
to trim panoramic images from start or end of the panoramic 
capture. 
 
10 
System should have integrated ACR BIRADS Lexicon available 
during the current study and BIRADS results, images and 
measurements should be fully integrated into the report worksheet 
for Breast Clinical Application. System should also have Print 
ready Liver, Obstetric and Vascular worksheets. 
 
11 
Machine should be capable of real time Compound imaging 
technology on linear, curved and mechanical volume probes for 
improved visualization. The compound imaging should have at 
least 9 beam steered lines of sight. 
 
12 
The system should have Basic Imaging Optimization controls like 
Tissue Harmonic Imaging, High Definition / General / Frame Rate 
optimization Control, Penetration / General / Resolution 
optimization control, Trapezoidal Imaging and Sector Size Control. 
 
13 
System should have both manual and Auto Doppler Trace facility 
on live and frozen images to improve the vascular workflow 
quantification of Doppler parameters. 
 
14 
System must be offered with  High Definition Speckle Reduction 
Imaging  
 


--- Page 19 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/RDG/18/19/OT 
 
Page 19 of 26 
 
15 
The system should have the ‘Speed of Sound Correction' feature. 
Specify number of such sound correction speeds to adapt to tissue 
type. This feature should be available both in linear and convex 
transducers. 
 
16 
The machine should support intima media thickness (IMT) 
quantification with automatic or user assisted tracing of intima-
media complex.  
 
17 
System should also offer Pulse Wave velocity measurement to 
measure the stiffness of the arterial walls or arteriosclerosis. 
 
18 
System should have High definition and PAN / zoom facility. 
 
19 
System should be able to support at least four electronic 
transducers with universal ports with simple electronic selection 
method for interchanging transducers. Additional parking ports 
would be preferable. 
 
20 
System should have one touch optimization for 2D & Doppler 
Modes. 
 
21 
System should have Cine loop facility, both frame by frame and in 
cine mode, with a memory for at least 3 minutes in 2D, color and 
Elastography modes.  The system should also be able to review 
and at least 20 seconds of Doppler and M mode data. 
 
22 
The system should have facility of direct storage and retrieval of 
B/W and color images in both frozen and cine loops in the inbuilt 
hard disk drive. In- built hard disk storage for images should be 
for more than 10000 images. 
 
23 
System should have state of the art technology to enhance the 
needle shaft and tip for biopsy procedures. It should also predict 
the needle path on B Mode without attaching any needle brackets 
for more precise free hand biopsies. 
 
24 
System should have Ultra Sensitive imaging Doppler mode that 
increases by a factor of atleast 3 the sensitivity and the spatial 
resolutionof conventional Doppler mode especially on slow flows 
Up to 160 images per second with Post processing controls to 
enable the visualisation of microvascular flow in both Real time 
and HD modes. 
 
 
25 
System should have real time simultaneous imaging mode that 
combines three modes - B-Mode, SWE and microvascular Color 
flow imaging modes - to visualize anatomy, tissue stiffness and 
blood flow simultaneously to improve the workflow. 
 
26 
The system should have advanced color Doppler facility to position 
at least three spectrograms (online or offline) on a single image 
within the same cardiac cycle with ultrahigh framerates (around 
200 frames/sec in Doppler mode) to simplify the workflow and 
reduce the examination time for Vascular application with both 
convex and linear transducers.  
 
27 
System should have the capability to be upgradable to FUSION 
Imaging, Needle guidance and Volume Navigation with ability to 
fuse Shearwave Elastograpghy and color imaging data with the 
 


--- Page 20 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/RDG/18/19/OT 
 
Page 20 of 26 
 
dataset of second modality during FUSION Imaging. 
28 
The real time shear wave elastography mode should be capable of 
performing; 
a. Real time Shear Wave tissue elastography imaging with 
convex, linear, 3D, microconvex and endocavitary 
transducers.  
b. The elastography should be Real-time, Fully automatic; 
requiring no manual / automatic compression with 
reproducible results for Liver, Breast, Thyroid, Prostate, 
Gyn, Renal and MSK applications. 
c. System should be able to generate a color coded 
elastogram with a reference Adjustable Numerical 
elasticity scale for each application.  
d. System should be able to display simultaneously both 
color coded elastogram and corresponding B-Mode image 
in real time for performing elastography guided 
biopsies/FNAC. 
e. There should be User adjustable elasticity-box size with a 
Display Depth: 0 - 12 cms. (Maximum SWE depth with 
convex probe is 12cm which is the highest in the 
industry) 
f. Elastography Quantification should be available with 
pixel accurate absolute or discreet Elasticity values on all 
transducers. (Elastography can be performed with 
absolute numbers without any need for distance or area 
ratio calculation unlike strain elastography) 
g. Elastography quantification tool (Ellipse and trace) 
should be able to provide Mean, Max & Min elasticity 
values of the tissues in both m/s and kPA (KiloPascal) on 
all transducers. 
h. System should have integrated report worksheet for Liver 
elasticity assessment. 
 
29 
Fully optimized Contrast Imaging mode should be available with 
simultaneous acquisition of B-mode and Contrast images in real-
time in full screen or Side-by-side display. 
a. 
On-screen Contrast timer should be available allowing 
up to 5 minutes of streamed prospective  cine capture 
b.  Independent control of contrast color maps, TGC 
curves, and Dynamic Range 
c. Flash micro bubble destruction mode should be 
available 
d. User adjustable number of frames, Micro-vascular 
Imaging, and persistence imaging should be available to 
assess slow micro-vessel perfusion. 
 
30 
A high resolution, fully articulation non-interlaced flicker free, 
anti-glare, flat panel display monitor of 21 inches or more. 
(LCD/LED) 
 
31 
System should have facility to transfer data from the hard disk on 
to a removable media (CD /DVD/USB).  
 


--- Page 21 ---
Tender No. : AIIMS/R/CS/RDG/18/19/OT 
 
Page 21 of 26 
 
32 
The system should be DICOM 3.0 (or higher version) ready (like 
send, receive, print, record on CD/DVD, acknowledge etc.) for 
connectivity to any network, PC/computer etc. in DICOM format. 
Vendor will connect the machine to existing PACS and to local 
other laser cameras without additional cost. 
 
33 
DICOM structured reporting for Obstetrics should be available 
 
34 
The system should have advanced Query Retrieve capabilities to 
Query full native data from the PACS, and display Retrieved 
images side- by-side with real-time ultrasound on system's 
monitor. 
 
35 
The system should have CD-DVD and USB archival (DICOM and 
PC format) 
 
36 
Both the machine and the real time shear wave elestography 
should be USA FDA certified/approved. 
 
 
Transducers: Following transducers should be offered with the 
system: 
1. Curved array 1 - 5 MHz. 
2. Linear array 4 - 15 MHz. 
3. Endocavitary probe 3 - 12 MHz with FOV of 135 or above 
4. Microconvex Probe 3-12 MHz. 
 
 
Optional Transducers : Please quote prices separately 
1. 
Linear 3D volume probe  5-16 MHz. 
2. Endocavitary 3D Volume probe 12 – 3MHz 
3. Linear array 15 – 4MHz 
4. Linear Hockey Stick  Probe 6-20 MHz 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accessories: 
a. On-line UPS with capacity for an hourbackup to support 
all functions of the equipment i.e.Performing Ultrasound 
procedure, exposure on to films or copy on a CD. 
b.CVT/Servo Voltage stabilizer ? do we need it….Its not 
required as UPS is already there but since it was 
mentioned in earlier tender floated by AIIMS so I didn’t 
change the accessories. Take it with surge buster 
c. Black and white Laser printer       ? For what....This can 
also be deleted if not required. 
d.A Dry chemistry camera of 500 DPI or more with two active 
trays. 
e. Essential furniture -  Two patient couch with mattress, 5 
revolving chairswith metal body  not the plastic onefrom 
reputed make like Godrej,2 Tablesmade of hard wood, 
Steel Almirah from Godrej or alike ( provide the specs), foot 
step, pillows,  
f. 
Offline 
solution 
for 
quantification 
of 
perfusion 
parameters like Contrast Wash-in & wash-out curves etc. 
 
 
Upgrading requirements  
A free, comprehensive software upgrade (compatible with the 
existing platform) guarantee for 10 years (after installation) of the 
ultrasound unit must be provided. 
 
 
Guarantee/Warranty 
1. Five years comprehensive onsite warranty of entire system 
 


