--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Fluorescence Microscope with Camera for Research Project                                                         
Admn/Tender/31/2018-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page10 
 
Annexure-I 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR FLUORESCENCE MICROSCOPE WITH CAMERA 
Quantity: 01 
Frame: 
Rigid and vibrations free frame Illuminator 
Optical System 
Infinity corrected system 
Illuminator: 
 
Built-in-Koehler illumination for transmitted light 12V100W halogen bulb 
(precantered) with motion sensor detects when an operator leaves and 
automatically turns off the light for long life of bulbs. Intensity adjustment 
centrally located so that both hand can be used to increase and decrease 
light.  
 Light intensity LED indicator. Light preset switch for photography. 
Built in filters ( Blue filter, ND6, ND25 filters)  
Observation tube 
Wide field trinocular observation head with field no. 22-25 mm with three 
ways light path selection with possibility of 100% light to eye and Camera.  
Eyepieces: 
Wide field eyepieces with field No. 22-25 mm 
Stage 
Ceramic-coated coaxial stage with right hand low drive control with rotating 
mechanism and torque adjustment mechanism. 
Focus 
Vertical stage movement 25mm stage stroke with coarse adjustment 
stopper. Torque adjustment for coarse adjustment knobs. Stage mounting 
position variable, high sensitive fine focusing knob with minimum adjustment 
graduation should be 1µm. 
Objectives 
Plan Achromat Objectives 4X/0.1 Fluorescence /Semi Apochromat Phase 
Contrast,  Objectives 10X/0.3 Fluorescence /Semi Apochromat objective 
20X/0.5, (spring) Fluorescence /Universal Plan Semi Apochromat Phase 
Contrast Objective 40X/0.75, (spring) Universal Plan Super Apochromat 
Objective 60X/1.35, (spring, oil) Universal Plan Super Apochromat Objective 
100X/1.4, (spring, oil) 
Condenser 
Swing out condenser (applicable for all objectives) 
Fluorescence Unit 
Fluorescence with eight /ten position built in filter Cube Turret. 120/130 
metal Halide / Mercury light illuminator with 2000 hrs life time. Filters should 
be DAPI/Hoechst, FITC/GFP, TRITC/ Rhodamine & Texas Red dyes. 
Cooled 
Digital 
Monochrome 
Monochrome camera, 1.4 or more Mega pixel for High Resolution Images, 
Progressive scan interline CCD, Pixel size 6.45um x 6.45um,1280 - 1392 x 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Fluorescence Microscope with Camera for Research Project                                                         
Admn/Tender/31/2018-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
Camera 
1020 - 1040 pixels,10fps frame rate, Mono, 12bit, includes camera head,1394 
Fire wire digital interface, power supply. High-Speed Readout < Previewing & 
focusing in real time 10fps full resolution@12bits(165fps maximum with 
binning and ROI functions), Tight synchronization with flash lamps automated 
filters, shutter & microscope stages. Linear Full Well 18,000e-(22,000e-with 
2x2 binning), Dark current 1.5e /p/s .Minimizing thermal noise during low 
light, long exposure imaging, 2/3 inch optical format. 2/3 inch C mount 
adapter. System should be capable of handling brightfield and fluorescence 
object 
Magnification 
changer:  
Having option of 1X, 1.25X, 1.6X and 2X. 
Imaging 
and 
analysis System: 
Image analysis Software for Measurements, EFI, Time lapse imaging, 
unimixing, colour merging for fluorescence imaging, image stitching, image 
overlay, line profile, geometry/ combine/ filter processing and should be 
capable of driving the camera for capture of Images in Real Time.  
 
Basic Image Acquisition: 
 Live image acquisition: Captures live images in various formats, compares 
live image with previous snapshot, displays crosshair in live image, saves and 
loads acquisition settings to reproduce capture conditions.  
Movie: Creates .avi movie files. Camera settings Saves and loads camera 
settings to reproduce its snapshot conditions. Basic Image Tools: 
 Image history and properties: Displays image history and properties. Image 
navigator: Enables tool window for image navigation and zooming.  
Gallery view: Displays thumbnails of open images in a gallery. Layers: Enables 
viewing, extraction and deletion of single image layers.  
Adjust display: Adjust display settings manually or automatically.  
Combine RGB images: Enables to combine multiple RGB images in one multi-
layer image.  
Image processing tools: Enables to adjust RGB, to adjust intensities, to 
optimize contrast, to perform white balance, and to invert images. 
Projections of display: Calculates projections of image display (min, max, 
mean).  
Static annotations: Draws text, arrows, lines, rectangles and ellipses on the 
image.  


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Fluorescence Microscope with Camera for Research Project                                                         
Admn/Tender/31/2018-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page12 
 
Basic Customization: Saves and manages layouts: Creates, customizes, saves 
and restores interface layouts. 
 Dark skin: Interface skin with colored icons against a dark background Basic 
Reporting:  
Data export and statistics: Exports measurement data to MS Excel and 
cellSens workbook format enables statistical analysis of measurements.  
Time lapse: Captures still images over time frequency. Extended Image 
 Tools: Image geometry: Enables to mirror, rotate, resize and crop images, to 
shift channels, and to adjust image stacks (cellSens Dimension only).  
Image Enhancement: Edge detection filters (scobel, roberts and laplace); 
smoothing filters (rank, median, sigma, low pass and NxN); sharpen filters 
(sharpen and high pass), adjust intensity and contrast, shading correction and 
background subtraction and dynamic contrast enhancement (DCE). 
Morphological filters: erosion, dilation, top hat, open, close, gradient, 
skeleton and watershed.  
Mode: Enables to convert bit-depth and colour space. Automatic image 
calibration Automatically calibrates acquired images based on microscope 
configuration and current magnification reading from encoded or motorized 
nosepieces. 
 Extended Measurement: Interactive measurements: Enables field of view 
measurements to measure distances, angles, rectangles, circles, ellipses and 
polygons: point, arbitrary line, perpendicular line, polyline, three points’ 
angle, four points’ angle, rectangle, rotated rectangle, three points circle, two 
points circle, rotated ellipse and closed polygon. Saves and loads 
measurement of an object from the image. 
Data Storage and 
Display System 
Suitable latest branded system having Intel 3rd gen.corei7 Processor with 
3.0MHz or more. HDD 750 GB or more, 6 GB RAM or more with 21” LED 
monitor, Windows 7, 1GB graphics card, USB mouse, Key Board, Fire wire 
port, on line UPS with 30 minutes to one hour backup. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


