--- Page 17 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/19/106/OT 
 
 
Page 17 of 22 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical Specification 
Sl. 
No. Item Descriptions 
1 
 
Technical specification of Advanced Electrosurgical Unit: 
 
1. An integrated system of Electrosurgical generator with Monopolar, Bipolar energy 
delivery features in a single generator. 
2. Maximum Output Power: 300 W or better 
3. The system should be micro-processor controlled which should identify the tissue type 
with an impedance feedback on real time basis and adjust the output power to get the desired 
surgical effects on the tissue. 
4. Number of Electrosurgical Mode Outputs: System should have at least two monopolar 
outputs & one bipolar output. 
5. Energy Output Controls & Settings: 
A. Screen display (Touch Screen/ LCD display with soft keys/knobs) for Monopolar & 
Bipolar energy effect controls. 
B. Energy settings can be modified according to need. 
6. Minimum RF Output Modes: 
A. “Monopolar CUT” Modes: 
i) PURE CUT: provides a clean, precise cut in any tissue with little or no haemostasis. 
ii) BLEND CUT: conventional blended waveform that provides slower cutting with 
simultaneous haemostasis. 
iii) SOFT CUT: precise and smooth cutting specifically for the use with wire or needle 
electrodes. 
B. “Monopolar COAG” Modes: 
i) SOFT/ CONTACT COAG: desiccates tissue at a relatively slower rate with deeper thermal 
penetration typically performed with a ball electrode. 
ii) FULGURATION/ FORCED PREP: coagulates tissue by sparking from the active 
electrode, through air to the patient tissue. 
iii) SPRAY: non-contact surface coagulation with shallow penetration & the affected tissue 
area is larger than with the FULGURATION mode. 
iv) IMPROVED HAEMOSTASIS/ URO COAG: It should deliver modified energy for 
improved haemostasis; more efficient dissection & less tissue drag compared to traditional 
Coagulation Mode. 
C. Bipolar Output Modes: 
i) LOW/ MICRO COAG: It delivers low-voltage output for precise control of the amount of 
desiccation typically used with small-surface area instruments. 
ii) STANDARD/ MACRO COAG: It is a conventional bipolar output typically used with 
medium-surface area electrodes. 
iii) HIGH/ NEPTUN: Power remains constant over a wide range of tissue types and may be 
used for large electrodes. 
D. Auto Bipolar Mode: Automatically senses tissue impedance between the two bipolar 
electrodes with contact of any material, then uses the impedance information to automatically 
start or stop bipolar energy delivery. 
7. Foot Controls: 
A. System should have separate monopolar & bipolar foot pedals. 
B. Should have an option of enabling or disabling the footswitches. 
8. Patient Return Electrode Contact Quality Monitoring System: When the measured 
Contact Resistance exceeds the standard range of safe resistance or when the measured 
contact resistance increases above a threshold over the baseline, the alarm is activated and 
energy output is disabled for patient safety. 


--- Page 18 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/19/106/OT 
 
 
Page 18 of 22 
 
9. Audio-Visual Indicators & Alarms: 
A. Should have system status indicators such as self-test, ready for use etc. 
B. Should have different visual indicators with audible activation tones for different energy 
mode settings. Activation tone volume should be user adjustable. 
C. Alarm for “patient return electrode monitoring system” error. 
D. System should have attached instruments status indicator. 
E. Should have system error indicator. 
10. The unit should have temperature sensing cooling system, which should operate 
automatically to protect generator from thermal damage. 
11. Upgradation facility: 
A. System should be updatable &upgradable by updating required software. 
B. System should have RS232/ USB/ Ethernet port or any other computer connectivity for on 
field software upgrades and serviceability. 
12. Connection to External Systems: 
A. Should have Interlink cable ports (RS232/ equivalent ports) to provide to signal other 
devices for integration. 
B. Should be compatible for integration with following external systems: 
i) Smoke Evacuation Unit (with automatic function synchronised with activation of ESU). 
ii) Argon Plasma Coagulator 
iii) Integration with existing integrated OR system, Karl Storz OR1™ installed in Urology 
OT of the institute. 
iv) Integration with Robotic Instruments. 
13. Should be compact and light weight, weighing less than 12 kg for installation on 
Operating Room ceiling mounted boom system. 
14. Input Power Requirement: 
A. Input Power: 220–240 VAC, Power Cable minimum 5 meters long with 6A three pin 
plug. 
B. Backup Power: Should continue to operate normally within specifications with no errors 
or system failures when transfer is made between Mains AC line and an emergency hospital 
backup power source during power failure. 
15. Environmental Parameters: 
A. Transport and Storage: Temp range: -10 to +60 degree C, RH range: 15% to 90%. 
B. Operation: Temp range: 10 to 40 degree C, RH range: 30% to 75%. 
16. System should be BIS/ European CE with four-digit certificate no./ US FDA 
approved for the intended use. 
17. Electrical Safety: 
A. Leakage Currents and Patient Auxiliary Currents (IEC 60601-1): 
i) Device must be tested for Touch Current, Earth Leakage Current, Patient Auxiliary Current 
& Total Patient Leakage Current under Normal Condition and Single Fault Condition (as 
defined in IEC 60601-1).  
ii) It should meet all pertinent clauses of IEC 60601-1 latest edition. 
iii) Testing certificate must be attached from a reliable standard testing laboratory for 
the supplied electrosurgical unit at the time of delivery. 
iv) Earth Leakage Current:  
-absolute upper limit of 500 µA (Normal condition).  
-absolute upper limit of 1000 µA (Single Fault Condition).  
v) Touch current: 
- absolute upper limit of 100 µA (Normal condition). 
- absolute upper limit of 500 µA (Single Fault Condition). 
vi) Patient leakage current: must comply to clauses of IEC 60601-1 latest edition. 
B. High Frequency Leakage (IEC 60601-2-2):  
- It should meet all pertinent clauses of IEC 60601-2-2 latest edition. 
- Testing certificate must be attached. 
C. Protection Class I Equipment (IEC 60601-1): 


--- Page 19 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/19/106/OT 
 
 
Page 19 of 22 
 
- Accessible conductive parts cannot become live in the event of a basic insulation failure 
because of the way in which they are connected to the protective earth conductor. 
D. Application part Type CF Equipment/Defibrillator Proof (IEC 60601-1, IEC 60601-
2-2 and equivalent standard): 
- Should have high degree of protection against electric shock regarding allowable leakage 
currents. Can be used for procedures involving the heart. 
18. Ingress Protection (IEC 60601-1 & IEC 60601-2-2): IP21 or better. 
19. Electromagnetic Compatibility (IEC 60601-1-2 and IEC 60601-2-2):  
- Should complies with the appropriate IEC 60601-1-2 and 60601-2-2 specifications 
regarding electromagnetic compatibility. 
20. Electrosurgical Unit Accessories: 
A. Monopolar Foot switch: Qty.01 
B. Bipolar Foot switch: Qty.01 
C. Universal active adaptor: Qty.01 
D. Monopolar accessories: 
i). Monopolar Cord for Bugbee electrode/ Laparoscopy instruments: Qty.02 
ii). Electrosurgical Pencils: Qty. 10 
iii). Electrosurgical Electrodes, Blade-tip: Qty. 10 
E. Patient Return Electrodes: Single use, corded patient return electrodes: Qty. 10 
F. Bipolar accessories: 
i). Bipolar cord for bipolar forceps: Qty.02 
ii). Reusable Bipolar Straight Forceps, 12-14cm, (Tip: 0.5-0.6mm): Qty. 02 
iii). Reusable Bipolar Straight Forceps, 15-17cm, (Tip: 0.6-0.7mm): Qty. 02 
21. All equipment should be mounted on lockable four wheel based cart manufactured 
by the original equipment manufacturer (OEM). 
22. General Requirements: 
i) All quoted equipments, instruments & accessories must be from a single 
manufacturer. 
ii) Along the Bid all the firms are required to submit copy of manufacturer catalogue 
with clear marking of each quoted item and catalogue No. with a highlighter to avoid 
discrepancy.  
iii) Warranty: Five years from the date of installation (including all spares and labour). 
iv) CMC: For 6th to 10th year, after expiry of warranty period (including all spares and 
labour). 
v) All firms should have supplied the quoted equipments & instruments to AIIMS/ PGI/ 
JIPMER/ SGPGI or other central institutes and should submit a certificate of satisfactory 
working from the concerned Govt. Hospital. 
23. Demonstration of bipolar instruments if required during evaluation. 
24. All required quality & electrical safety testing certificates, brochures, user manual, 
service manual & safety checklists & required maintenance schedule must be supplied in 
original during installation. 
 
Instructions for Online Bid Submission: 
The bidders are required to submit soft copies of their bids electronically on the CPP Portal, using 
valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions given below are meant to assist the bidders in 
registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in accordance with the requirements and submitting 
their bids online on the CPP Portal.  
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at: 
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. 
REGISTRATION 


