--- Page 48 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ HDR Brachytherapy  
 
Page 45 of 69 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – VII TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Technical specification for Supply and installation of HDR Brachytherapy  
GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
1. 
Warranty: 1 years against manufacturing defect 
2. 
All instruments should be corrosion resistant, BIS/European CE certified / 
USFDA approved. 
3. 
Manufacturer should be ISO Certified. 
4. 
All the firms are required to submit their catalogue along with tender/ 
quotation clearly marking the Quoted item and no. with a highlighter. 
5. 
All the components of item will be purchased together from a single 
manufacturer. Demonstration of the instruments may be taken from all the 
firms. 
6. 
L-1 will be decided on total value only. 
7. 
All firms should have supplied the quoted instruments to the reputed central 
government hospitals like AIIMS, PGI, etc. and should submit a certificate of 
satisfactory working from the concerned government hospital. 
Technical Specifications of HDR Brachytherapy  
 
EQUIPMENT:  HDR BRACHYTHERAPY  
                         
 (A) RING APPLICATOR  
 (B) MUPIT 
 (C) GENEVA APPLICATOR 
 (D) CT/MR TRANSFER TUBE SET 
                     
 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
 
(A) MUPIT 
 
- The MUPIT should be seamlessly integrated with the 20 Channel Flexitron 
machine of Elekta make which is installed at our institute. 
 
- The Martinez Universal Perineal Interstitial Template (MUPIT) should be useful for  
interstitial placement of needles to treat cancer in the perineum, prostate, rectum 
or vagina.  
 
- The periphery of the template should have  angled holes for the needles to reach 
the widest tumor spread. 


--- Page 49 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ HDR Brachytherapy  
 
Page 46 of 69 
 
 
It should consist of  
 
- 1 number Base Plate Small 
- 1 number Base Plate Large 
- 3 number Base Plate Filler for Needles 
-1 number  Base Plate Filler 12mm Hole 
-1 number Cover Plate 
-1 number Cover Plate Filler 12mm Hole 
-1 number  Cover plate filler 8mm hole 
-1 number Rectal Cylinder 
-2 number  Screw for Baseplate 
-1 number  Fixing Screw, Cover Plate (pack of 14) 
-2 numbers Screw for Cylinder 
-1 number  Fixing Screw, for 045.449 (pack of 2) 
-1 number Allen Key screwdriver 2.5mm 
-1 number Needle Stopper 1.9mm (pack of 35) 
-1 number Cover Plate Filler, Needles (pack of 3) 
-1 number Vaginal Cylinder 
-1 number Screw for 045.449 
-1 number Torque Screwdriver, 1.27mm 
-1 number  Assy Suitcase 
- Warranty for 1 year 
 
 
(B) RING APPLICATOR 
 
- The Ring applicator should be seamlessly integrated with the 20 channel Flexitron 
machine of Elekta make which is installed at our institute. 
- Ring Applicator Set, 30° set should be provided with the following parts 
- A rectal retractor should be provided which can be used to push the rectal/vaginal 
wall to a fixed distance from the source. 
-  It should consist of  
- 1 number Ring Tube, d = 26mm, 30° 
- 1 number Ring Tube, d = 30mm, 30° 
- 1 number Intrauterine Tube, l = 20mm, 30° 
- 1 number  Intrauterine Tube, l = 40mm, 30° 
- 1 number  Intrauterine Tube, l = 60mm, 30° 
- 1 number Rectal Retractor, 30° 
- 1 number Ring Cap, d = 26mm 
- 1 number Ring Cap, d = 30mm 
- 1 number Sterilizing Caps, 3.2mm 
- Warranty for 1 year 
 
 
(C) GENEVA APPLICATOR 
 
- The Ring applicator should be seamlessly integrated with the 20 channel Flexitron 
machine of Elekta make which is installed at our institute. 
 
- 1number Insertion Tool number Sterilizing Caps, CT/MR consisting of: Pack of 50. 
To be used during sterilization of CT and MR applicators. 
 


--- Page 50 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ HDR Brachytherapy  
 
Page 47 of 69 
 
- 1 number CT/MR Sterilization Box The Sterilization box does not include the 
additional accessories tray. 
 
- 1 number Cleaning Brush Ø 2.5 x 250, Set of 3 
 
- 1 Cleaning Brush Ø 6.5 x 100, Set of 3 
 
- 2 Sets Of 5 Obturators 6F, L=294mm 
 
- 3 Pro Guide Needle 6F Round 294mm consisting of: Set of 5 Single packed, 
Delivered Sterile 
 
- 3  PROGUIDE 6F S 294MM (5X) 
 
- 1 number Ovoid Tube 1This non-metallic MR safe ovoid tube ensures easy 
insertion, the tube is designed to attach a interstitial ovoid with possibility to insert 
parallel needles in the ovoid, includes a integrated fixation mechanism to fixate the 
ovoid tube on the intrauterine tube. 
 
- 1 number Ovoid Tube 2 This non-metallic MR safe ovoid tube ensures easy 
insertion, the tube is designed to attach a interstitial ovoid with possiblity to insert 
parallel needles in the ovoid, includes a integrated fixation machanism to fixate the 
ovoid tube on the intrauterine tube. 
 
- 1 number Ovoid Tube 1 - Interstitial Ovoid 13 mm 
This non-metallic MR safe ovoid the tube includes the smallest interstitial 13mm 
ovoid with possibility to insert parallel needles in the ovoid, includes a integrated 
fixation mechanism to fixate the ovoid tube on the intrauterine tube. 
 
 - 1 number Ovoid Tube 2 - Interstitial Ovoid 13 mm 
 -  This non-metallic MR safe ovoid the tube includes the smallest interstitial 13mm 
ovoid with possibility to insert parallel needles in the ovoid, includes a integrated 
fixation mechanism to fixate the ovoid tube on the intrauterine tube. 
 
 -1 number Intrauterine Tube 40 mm 30° 
Non-metallic MR safe intrauterine tube with small diameter shaft (4mm) suitable 
for Geneva applicator 30°, includes integrated fixation mechanism to click easily 
the ovoid tubes on the intrauterine tube. 
 
 -1 number Intrauterine Tube 50 mm 30° 
Non-metallic MR safe intrauterine tube with small diameter shaft (4mm) suitable 
for Geneva applicator 30°, includes integrated fixation mechanism to click easily 
the ovoid tubes on the intrauterine tube. 
 
 -1 number Intrauterine Tube 60 mm 30° 
Non-metallic MR safe intrauterine tube with small diameter shaft (4mm) suitable 
for Geneva applicator 30°, includes integrated fixation mechanism to click easily 
the ovoid tubes on the intrauterine tube. 
 
 
 -1 number Intrauterine Tube 40 mm 45° 
Non-metallic MR safe intrauterine tube with small diameter shaft (4mm) suitable 
for Geneva applicator 45°, includes integrated fixation mechanism to click easily 
the ovoid tubes on the intrauterine tube. 
 


--- Page 51 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ HDR Brachytherapy  
 
Page 48 of 69 
 
-1number Intrauterine Tube 50 mm 45° 
Non-metallic MR safe intrauterine tube with small diameter shaft (4mm) suitable 
for Geneva applicator 45°, includes integrated fixation mechanism to click easily 
the ovoid tubes on the intrauterine tube. 
 
-1 number Intrauterine Tube 60 mm 45° 
Non-metallic MR safe intrauterine tube with small diameter shaft (4mm) suitable 
for Geneva applicator 45°, includes integrated fixation mechanism to click easily 
the ovoid tubes on the intrauterine tube. 
 
-1 number Interstitial Ovoid Pair 15 mm 
Interstitial ovoids pair with 15° angle needle to insert parallel needles 
 
-1 number Interstitial Ovoid Pair 20 mm 
Interstitial ovoids pair with 15° angle needle to insert parallel needles 
 
-1 number Interstitial Ovoid Pair 25 mm 
Interstitial ovoids pair with 15° angle needle to insert parallel needles 
 
-1 number Interstitial Ovoid Pair 30 mm 
Interstitial ovoids pair with 15° angle needle to insert parallel needles 
 
-1 number Rectal Retractor 30 mm 
Non-metallic rectal retractor to click on the Geneva applicator below the ovoids. 
 
-1 number Spreading Clip The spreading clip for Geneva applicator tubes to set the 
spreading distance orfixate the tubes onto the cervical stopper. 
 
 
-1 number Bracelet for guiding tubes 
After insertion of the needles the bracelet can be attached on the applicator tubes 
to short the guiding tubes with proguides needles in for an easy overview and 
keep all the needles close to the applicator. 
 
-1 Number tag for guiding tubes 
To identify the needle numbers, number tags can be used by attaching them on 
the guiding tubes. 
 
-1 number Guiding tubes for interstitial lunar ovoids 5x1 
The guiding tube allows to easily insert and guide the needles when the applicator 
is inserted in the patient, and to be able to insert and lock the needles outside the 
patient. 
 
-1 number MR safe clip to fixate the Ovoids Tubes on the Intrauterine Tube of the 
Geneva applicator. 
 
-3 numbers Guiding tubes for interstitial lunar ovoids 5x1 
The guiding tube allows to easily insert and guide the needles when the applicator 
is inserted in the patient, and to be able to insert and lock the needles outside the 
patient. 
 
-1 number ENG PROGUIDE NEEDLE 
 
- Warranty for 1 year 
 
(D) CT/MR transfer tube set 


--- Page 52 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ HDR Brachytherapy  
 
Page 49 of 69 
 
 
-  The Geneva applicator should be seamlessly integrated with the 20 channel 
Flexitron machine of Elekta make which is installed at our institute. 
 
- Should provide 4 numbers of MR Line Marker sets that make gynecological CT/MR 
applicators visible on MR- imaging. The Line-marker, consosting of a plastic tube 
to be filled with fluid, will be placed inside the source- channel of the concerning 
intrauterine-, ovoid and ring tubes of the applicators. 
- Should provide CT/MR GYN Transfer Tube Set which should enable the option to 
connect CT/MR applicators to the HDR Brachytherapy machine (Flexitron). 
 
1 number CT/MR GYN Transfer Tube keyed # 1 
1 number CT/MR GYN Transfer Tube keyed # 3 
1 number CT/MR GYN Transfer Tube keyed # 5 
 
- Warranty for 01 year 
• 
Technical compliance report should be submitted in following format: 
Sr. 
No. 
Item Description 
as per Tender 
Complied 
Yes/No 
Item 
Description 
offered 
by 
Firm 
Deviation if 
any 
Remark 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
GENERAL POINTS: 
1. 
Warranty: 
a) One year Comprehensive Warranty as per Conditions of Contract of the TE 
document for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) Warranty period will be 5 years 
from the date of installation, commissioning and Site Modification Work 
from the date of satisfactory installation, commissioning, trial run & 
handing over of equipment to Hospital/Institution/Medical College. 
b) 95% up time Warranty of complete equipment with extension of Warranty 
period by double the downtime period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) 
basis. 
c) All software updates should be provided free of cost during Warranty 
period. 
2. 
After Sales Service:  
After 
sales 
service 
center 
should 
be 
available 
at 
the 
city 
of 
Hospital/Institution/Medical College on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) X 365 (days) basis. 
Complaints should be attended properly, maximum within 8 hrs. The service 
should be provided directly by Tenderer/Indian Agent. Undertaking by the 
Principals that the spares for the equipment shall be available for at least 10 
years from the date of supply. 
3. 
Training:  
4. 
On Site training to Doctors/ Technicians/ staff is to be provided by Principal/ 
Indian Agents (if they have the requisite know-how) for operation and 
maintenance of the equipment to the satisfaction of the consignee. The same 
will be in line with the training modalities as specified in general technical 
specification. 
5. 
Annual Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) of subject equipment 
with Site Modification Work: 


--- Page 53 ---
Tender No.  AIIMSMG/Proc/2022-23/GTE/ HDR Brachytherapy  
 
Page 50 of 69 
 
a) 
The cost of Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) which includes 
preventive maintenance including testing & calibration as per technical/ 
service /operational manual of the manufacturer, labour and spares, after 
satisfactory completion of Warranty period may be quoted for next 5 years on 
yearly basis for complete equipment (including Batteries for UPS, other 
vacuumatic parts wherever applicable) and Site Modification Work (if any). The 
supplier shall visit each consignee site as recommended in the manufacturer’s 
technical/ service /operational manual, but at least twice in six months (i.e. 4 
preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all breakdown visits, during the 
CMC period 
b) 
The cost of CMC may be quoted along with taxes applicable on the date of 
Tender Opening. The taxes to be paid extra, to be specifically stated. In the 
absence of any such stipulation the price will be taken inclusive of such taxes 
and no claim for the same will be entertained later. 
c) 
Cost of CMC will be added for Ranking/ Evaluation purpose. The same will be 
taken at Net Present Value with a 10% discounting factor each year. 
d) 
The payment of CMC will be made on six monthly basis after satisfactory 
completion of said period, duly certified by end user on receipt of bank 
guarantee for 2.5% of the cost of the equipment as per Section XV valid till 2 
months after expiry of entire CMC period. 
e) 
There will be 95% uptime warranty during CMC period on 24 (hrs) X 7 (days) 
X 365 (days) basis, with penalty, to extend CMC period by double the 
downtime period. 
f) 
During CMC period, the supplier is required to visit at each consignee’s site at 
least twice in 6 months (i.e. 4 preventive maintenance/ year) apart from all 
breakdown visits, commencing from the date of the successful completion of 
warranty period for preventive maintenance of the goods. 
g) 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during CMC. 
h) 
Failure of the above [4. e) to 4. g)] by the supplier, may lead to the forfeiture of 
the Bank Guarantee for Annual CMC. 
i) 
The payment of CMC will be made as stipulated in GCC Clause 21. 
 
Note 1:  
Tenderer’s attention is drawn to GIT clause 18 and GIT sub-clause 11.1 A (iii). The 
tenderer is to provide the required details, information, confirmations, etc. 
accordingly failing which it’s tender is liable to be ignored. 
Note 2:  
General: Bidders are requested to make sure that they should attach the list of 
equipment for carrying out routine and preventive maintenance wherever asked for 
and should make sure that Electrical Safety Analyzer / Tester for Medical equipment 
to periodically check the electrical safety aspects as per BIS Safety Standards IS-
13540 which is also equivalent to IEC electrical safety standard IEC- 60601 is a part 
of the equipment s. If the Electrical Safety Analyzer/Tester is not available they 
should provide a commitment to get the equipment checked for electrical safety 
compliance with Electronic Regional Test Labs / Electronics Test and Development 
Centres across the country on every preventive maintenance call. 
Note 3:  
Adequate training of personnel and non-locked open software and standard interface 
interoperability conditions for networked equipment in hospital management 
information system (HMIS). 
The successful tenderer will be required to undertake to provide at his cost technical 
training for personnel involved in the use and handling of the equipment on site at 
the institute immediately after its installation. The company shall be required to train 
the institute personnel onsite as and when required. 
All software updates should be provided free of cost during warranty period and CMC 
period 


