--- Page 10 ---
   
Tender for ACLS Training system with wireless control & patient monitor                       Admn/Tender/Manikin/4/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
 Technical Specifications 
Qty. 
01. 
ACLS 
Training 
system with 
wireless 
control 
& 
patient 
monitor. 
1. The manikin should be a full body adult CPR training manikin with 
anatomically correct landmarks and sternal notch to allow students 
to practice identification of all anatomical landmarks relevant to 
adult CPR.  
2. The training system should contain a hand held wireless control 
device for real-time CPR performance feedback with ventilation and 
compression as per latest American Heart Association (AHA) 
guidelines.  
3. The training system should allow further software upgradation to 
improve feedback with quality. 
4. The training system should provide realistic resistance during chest 
compression which allows students to experience the amount of 
pressure needed to perform proper chest compressions in a real life 
situation.  
5. The manikin should simulate natural obstruction of the airway 
which allows students to learn the important technique of opening 
the airway according to latest guidelines.  
6. Head tilt/chin lift and jaw thrust allows students to correctly practice 
airway maneuvers necessary when resuscitating a real victim. 
7. Occluded airway with hyperextension stresses proper head position. 
8. The manikin should have disposable airways and easily removable 
face skin to avoid cross contamination. 
9. The manikin must show a realistic chest rise during ventilation 
through the following procedures: mouth to mouth, mouth to nose 
and bag mask to mouth. 
10. The manikin should allow placement of supraglottic airway devices: 
oropharyngeal and nasopharyngeal airway insertion, laryngeal mask 
airway, Combitube and laryngeal tube.  
11. The model should have automatically generated carotid pulses 
should be synchronized with ECG and allow realistic pulse check 
during training 
12. The manikin should allow user to incorporate live defibrillation/live 
AED or manual defibrillators during the learning experience.  
13. The model should have 4 connector 3-lead feature to allow students 
to monitor ECG rhythms during training 
14. The model must simulate the following cardiac rhythms in the 
manikin:  
i. 
Normal Sinus Rhythm (NSR) 
ii. 
Ventricular fibrillation 
iii. 
Ventricular Tachycardia with pulse 
iv. 
Ventricular Tachycardia, without pulse (pulseless) 
v. 
Asystole 
vi. 
PEA/EMD 
(pulseless 
electrical 
activity 
/ 
electromechanical dissociation)  
 
15. The training model should provide live feedback of vital sign as on 
a Monitor and detailed information about chest compression, 
compression rate, ventilation volume and hand positioning when 
performing CPR.  
16. The model should have an intravenous arm to practice venipuncture 
and intravenous injection administration.  
17. The system should allow transfer of feedback data to PC for 
overhead viewing, printing and remote storage.  
01 


--- Page 11 ---
   
Tender for ACLS Training system with wireless control & patient monitor                       Admn/Tender/Manikin/4/2016-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. The training system should have ability to get connected to an 
optional simulated patient monitor to display various vital signs.  
19. The training system should allow users to log different procedures 
done by the learners during the simulation.  
20. The manikin should be modular design to allow various limbs to be 
attached to enhance training system.  
 


