--- Page 10 ---
Tender for Portable Color Doppler Ultrasound Scanner 
Admn/Tender/07/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 10 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Portable 
Color 
Doppler 
Ultrasound 
Scanner  
1. The equipment must operate in B, M, Doppler, Color flow and Power 
Doppler modes. It must support transducers with linear, sector and 
convex formats. Machine Should have 3D/4D and CEUS upgradability. 
Further, it must include a full array of measurement and calculation 
packages. The specific minimum requirements for this equipment are as 
follow.  
User Interface & Ergonomics  
1.1. The system shall have 19" LED Monitor to allow for both 
excellent images Viewing as well as providing for workflow and 
productivity features.  
1 2. Monitor should have articulating Arm with tilt & rotate 
movements independent of console.  
1.3. The system shall have Four Active 'Universal' probe ports in 
a convenient, easy to access location to maxrmize the 
availability of needed probes.  
1.4. The unit should have 8.4" touch panel for user friendliness 
for Mode operation and interface.  
2. Productivity 
2.1. The system shall offer an extended field-of-view imaging 
that operates by sweeping a transducer over the anatomy of 
interest. This mode shall build the extended field-of-view in a 
real-time manner, showing the image as it builds.  
2.2. System shall have image management features that store 
images by patient and include the ability to review images from 
different exam dates.  
2.3. System shall support the ability to store digital raw data that 
allows to optimize imaging parameters such as B Gain, TGC, 
Color Gain, Dynamic Range, Speckle Reduction levels, DOppler 
Gain, Doppler Base Line on image recalled from the image 
archive.  
2.4. System shall allow for live image and archive images side-
by-side or quad display on a single monitor. This display shall 
allow any type of image - B-Mode, Color, or power Doppler on 
either side.  
2.5. The system shall display thumbnails on a clipboard while 
scanning to facilitate exams  
3. Unit should have Elastography on Linear Probe (optional 
4. Unit should have Auto IMT (lntima media thickness measurement) 
facility.  
5. Raw Data Processing.  
5.1. The system shall allow for post-storage image manipulation 
to provide maximum. image flexibility, review and productivity. 
It shall include, at a minimum the ability to change the:  
• Overall 13-Mode gain, dynamic range and gray scale 
maps.  
• Overall Doppler gain, base line shill, sweep speed and 
inverted spectral waveform,  
• 3D reconstruction from a stored 13 mode CINE-loop, 
using the normal probes. (Optional)  
5.2. The system shall provide a display zoom function on frozen 
images.  
6. Scanning Parameters  
01 


--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Portable Color Doppler Ultrasound Scanner 
Admn/Tender/07/2019-AIIMS.JDH 
AIIMS Jodhpur 
Page 11 
 
 
 
6.1. The system shall possess the ability to control speckle 
through the use of a speckle reduction (SRI) algorithm that 
enhances borders, reduces speckle artifact and improves detail 
and contract resolution in gray scale with compatibility in Color 
mode. 3D and side-by-Side display. This feature shall have 
operator selectable settings and can display in side-by-side mode 
with non-speckle reduced image.  
6.2. The system shall provide the ability to scan in the compound 
Imaging mode with multiple lines on all linear and convex 
probes.  
6.3. The system shall provide scan depths from a minimum of 2 
cm to at least 30 cm  
6.4. System should have Integrated internal total Hard disk HDD 
of 500GB  
System should have minimum 1,00,000 processing Channels.  
7. Anatomical M-Mode Imaging  
The system shall have a facility allowing the M-Mode cursor to 
be adjustable in any plane and allow for accurate measurements. 
The M-mode shall be reconstructed from earlier stored B mode 
cine loop  
8. Spectral Doppler (PW)  
8.1. Doppler mode shall be available on all probes  
8.2. The system shall provide the user with control during 
timeline replay to review the Spectrum only (i.e., frozen B-
Mode) or with the spectrum and B-Mode together and 
synchronized  
8.3. The system shall provide the user with the ability to add a 
spectral peak and spectral mean trace onto the spectrum in both 
real time or tiller freezing the image  
9. The system shall provide digital calipers for at least the following 
measurements: 
• Dept Distance  
• Circumference  
• Area  
• Volume  
• Velocity  
9.2 All measurement should be possible on frozen images as 
well as on the images recalled from the image archives  
9.3 The system shall provide a comprehensive set of obstetrical 
and gynecologic calculations and vascular calculations with 
summary reports  
10 Unit should have integrated 3D imaging facility using normal probes. 
Also, to have facility to generate 3D from previously stored Cine Loops, 
System to can capture 3 - dimensional data from parallel and sweep 
Movements  
11 D1COM Connectivity  
• Transducers  
• Convex Probe Operating Frequency : 2-5 MHz  
• Volume (Convex) 4 D Probe  
• Linear Probe Operating Frequency : 6-11 MHz  
• Radiac Sector 2-4 MHz with TVI/TDI & Q Analysis  
• 1 KVA UPS with 30 twins back-up 


