--- Page 17 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/18/17/OT 
 
 
Page 17 of 22 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
Technical Specification 
Sl. No. 
Item Descriptions 
1 
Specifications for 2D Endovision system for Endourology & Laparoscopy. 
A. Full High Definition, 2-D, Digital Camera Head and Video Processor Unit: (Qty. 01) 
1. “3-Chip”, full HD camera head with pure digital signal with high definition video of 
1920x1080p native resolution and progressive scan technology both on camera head and 
video processor unit and the consistent use of 16: 9 formats for Input & Output to 
guarantee genuine HDTV. 
2. Image Sensors (Camera Head): 3-Chip CMOS/ 3-Chip CCD technology. 
3. Image Resolution: 1920x1080p pixels per chip or higher.  
4. Observation modes: Should be compatible for; 
(a) White light Imaging (WLI)- for general purpose use. 
(b) Narrow Band Imaging (NBI)- special filter light for observation of capillary vessels and 
fine patterns in the superficial layer of mucosa for early detection of lesions. 
(c) Indocyanin green (ICG) fluorescence detection capability by Near Infra Red (IR) light. 
The Individual components (Light source, camera system, telescopes and fiber optic cable) 
are perfectly aligned to ICG HD system/Special filter light (NBI) for observation of capillary 
vessels and fine patterns in the superficial layer of mucosa for early detection of lesions. 
5. The system should have digital and/or optical zoom to enhance the quality of image size 
& cross speciality standardization of the camera system, regardless of the telescope used. 
6. Two or more peripheral controls on camera head including digital zoom and white 
balance and ability to control supplied Video Documentation Unit. 
7. Integrated electronic gain/shutter/enhancement with automatic brightness control. 
8. AGC: microprocessor controlled. 
9. Video Outputs: DVI/ HD-SDI/ Equivalent HD. 
10. The system should automatically optimize all settings. Plug and play with auto-
detection 
of input source. 
11. The system should be menu driven, thus allowing the surgeon to program the camera 
head functions as per the surgical needs & requirement. 
12. Camera module should be compatible for future use with Flexible Video 
Ureterorenoscope. 
13. Should be fully immersible in disinfection solution. Gas and Plasma Sterilization 
compatible. 
14. Power supply: 100-240 V AC; 50/60 Hz. 
15. Classification (Medical Electrical Equipment):   
-Type of protection against electric shock: Class I 


--- Page 18 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/18/17/OT 
 
 
Page 18 of 22 
 
B. High Resolution Monitor: (Qty. 01) 
1. Full High Definition 1920x1080p native resolution, Medical Grade, LED/LCD crystal 
display, Colour Monitor, 26-inch size or more, Flat Panel Monitor. 
2. HDTV display in original 16: 9 HDTV format. 
3. PAL system compatible. 
4. Video Inputs: DVI/ HD-SDI /Equivalent HD  
5. Video Outputs: DVI/ HD-SDI /Equivalent HD  
6. Multi-modality display capability, including Picture in Picture (PIP) and Clone Out 
function with various image size combinations to Video Documentation Unit. 
7. Power supply: 220-240 V AC; 50 Hz. 
8. Electric shock protection: Class 1 [IEC-60601/IS-13450]   
C. Light Source: (Qty. 01) 
1. LED based cold light source. 
2. Colour temperature should be 5800K or more. 
3. "LED light source” for general purpose use and ICG imaging. If LED not available for ICG 
imaging purpose the vendor may offer “LED source” for general purpose and “Xenon light 
source” compatible with ICG imaging. 
4. Light Intensity Adjustment: Continuously adjustable either manually or automatically by 
cameras video output signal. 
5. Should be supplied with fiber optic light cable of length 250cm or greater with capability 
for Indocyanin green (ICG) fluorescence evaluation with adaptors. 
6. Facility of switching between white light and Near Infra-Red light (IR) for ICG HD and 
special filter light (NBI) for observation of capillary vessels and fine patterns in the 
superficial layer of mucosa for early detection of lesions. 
7. Power supply: 220-240 V AC; 50 Hz. 
8. Electric shock protection: Class 1 [IEC-60601/IS-13450]   
-Type of protection against electric shock: Class I 
D. Carbon dioxide Insufflator: (Qty. 01) 
1. Microprocessor controlled & Software driven for upgradeability. 
2. Gas flow: minimum flow rate of 1 L/minute or lower; maximum flow rate of 40L/min or 
higher. 
3. LCD display for settings and current measurements: pressure, flow rate & volume of gas 
consumption. 
4. Should have visual and audible alarms for pressure exceeding over set limit, low gas 
pressure at source, tube blockage.  
5. Constant measurement of intra-abdominal gas pressure, internal venting system for 
safety. 
6. Integrated Gas heating system for preheating gas to body temperature to prevent 


--- Page 19 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/18/17/OT 
 
 
Page 19 of 22 
 
peritoneum for cooling down. 
7. Gas heating adaptor and autoclavable tubing for connection to ports with essential 
adaptors. 
8. Tubing (1 meter or longer) and connectors for gas cylinder and central gas supply with 
wrenches/ devices essential to make the connections. 
E. HD Video Documentation system: (Qty. 01) 
1. Capability of receiving signals and recording video from HD endoscopic cameras, digital 
x-ray units and ultrasound machines. 
2. Record in HD at 1080p. 
3. Ability to transfer captured still images and video files to external media using USB and 
in DVD recorder. 
4. Video recording file format should be in “AVC-HD” format. Image recording file format 
should be in JPEG or BMP or TIFF. 
5. Camera Head Triggering Control from existing HD Camera head buttons to capture 
image or to start/stop video recording. 
6. Internal recording hard drive should be 300GB or more and 2TB external online storage 
should be provided. 
7. Video inputs: HD/SD-SDI, DVI or equivalent HD 
8. Video outputs: HD/SD-SDI, DVI or equivalent HD 
9. Capability for simultaneous recording on external device through USB interface on front 
panel. 
10. Capacity for images to be printed with USB attached printers. 
11. Front panel should display recording status. 
12. Should have smart screen for display of recorded videos. 
13. Should be able to record both 2D & 3D HD videos. 
14. Should be dual channel recording system. 
15. High medical grade electrical shock protection according to [IEC-60601/IS-13450]. 
F. Video cart and monitor arm: (Qty. 01) 
1. Must be of the same manufacturer as the main equipment except the UPS. 
2. Coated good quality rust free and should be able to take load minimum up to 70 Kg. 
3. Mobile Lockable Universal Video Trolley including 4 shelves, 3 of which are fully height 
adjustable and one drawer. 
4. The quoted 26-inch or more panel flat monitor must be mounted on a mobile monitor 
arm for adjustment of position of the monitor with 2 articulations on the arm. 
5. Integrated cable ducts, 4 Anti-static Smooth-Running Wheel Casters, Atleast 2 of which 
can be locked. 
6. CO2 bottle stand should be integrated with trolley. 
7. High medical grade electrical shock protection according to [IEC-60601/IS-13450]. 


--- Page 20 ---
NIT No. : AIIMS/R/CS/URO/18/17/OT 
 
 
Page 20 of 22 
 
8. Basic Electrics to connect up to 12 Electrical Units. 
9. Mains Voltage, 220-240 V, with Main Switch, Isolating Transformer. 
10. All cabling must be internal and concealed. 
11. UPS (Qty. 1): Compatible UPS with 30Min Battery back-up and surge protection 
facility.   
G. Rigid telescopes: 
1. 10mm diameter, 30-32cm length, forward oblique, 30 degrees viewing laparoscope, 
autoclavable with fiber-optic light transmission incorporated with Indocyanine green and 
autofluorescence detection capability. (Qty. 01) 
2. 10mm diameter, 30-32cm length, forward oblique, 30 degrees viewing laparoscope, 
autoclavable with fiber-optic light transmission incorporated for general laparoscopy use. 
(Qty. 01) 
H. General 
1. All equipment supplied must be the latest models of the quoted versions. 
2. All items should be from same manufacturer except UPS. 
3. All required power cables and video transmitting cables for proper functioning of 
“Endovision Unit” should be provided. 
4. The vendor must ensure that all items/accessories necessary to obtain the full benefit 
and functionality of all equipment in the Urology OT are provided. 
5. Complete installation of the equipment has to be done by the vendor. 
6. Should be BIS/ European CE with 4-digit notified body no./ US FDA approved for 
the quoted model. 
7. Original product data sheets, complete manuals and other necessary documents should 
be provided. Photocopies of these documents or printouts of the email/web pages will not 
be accepted. 
 
 
Instructions for Online Bid Submission: 
The bidders are required to submit soft copies of their bids electronically on the CPP Portal, using 
valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions given below are meant to assist the bidders in 
registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in accordance with the requirements and submitting 
their bids online on the CPP Portal.  
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at: 
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. 
REGISTRATION 
1) Bidders are required to enroll on the e-Procurement module of the Central Public Procurement 
Portal (URL: https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on the link “Online bidder 
Enrollment” on the CPP Portal which is free of charge. 
2) As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique username and 
assign a password for their accounts.  


