--- Page 11 ---
Tender for Paediatric Plethysmography Machine                                                              Admn/Tender/75/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page11 
 
Annexure-I 
S.No 
Item 
Technical Specification 
Qty 
01. 
Paediatric 
Plethysmography 
Machine 
Requirement 
Whole body plethysmography machine for measurement of lung 
volume and airway 
resistance in newborn, infants, and preschool children. 
General specifications 
1. The dimensions of the plethysmographic chamber should be 
sufficient to accommodate newborn, infants and children up to 
20 Kgs and 105 Cms length. It should have sufficient space for 
manipulation of the mask and breathing apparatus while the 
patient is placed in the chamber. 
2. The covering of box should be transparent with rapid access to 
the child 
3. The compensation chamber should have identical thermal and 
mechanical characteristics as the plethysmographic chamber 
4. The box should be made of polycarbonate/ similar materials 
that ensure adequate heat exchange and should not be 
excessively insulated. It is desirable that the net loss through 
the walls should equal net gain from infant and equipment to 
ensure rapid thermal equilibration. 
5.  There should be non-compressible objects within the box  
6. Frequency response (amplitude and phase) should be 
satisfactory to 10 Hz with the combined time constant should 
be 10 – 14 s (> 50-60% decay) or a half-life of 6 – 9 s. (Should 
meet ATS/ERS recommendation) 
7. There should be a linear response of the box signal to known 
inputs over a range of appropriate breathing frequencies (e.g. 
20 – 100 breaths per minute (bpm)). 
8. It should be able to measure a volume change of as small as 1-
2 ml during FRC measurements. 
9. It should be able to measure FRC in range of volumes 30 – 500 
mL, at frequencies 
20 – 100 breath per minute. In addition to automatic selection 
of best curve, the software should preferably permit manual 
selection also. 
10. It should preferably provide software for measurement of 
airway reactance and conductance. 
11. Machine should have USA FDA/European CE certification. 
 
Specifications for breathing apparatus 
1. The pneumotachometer (PNT) must be linear over the range of 
flows encountered and it should remain linear when heated. 
2. The combined dead space of the PNT and occlusion shutter 
should be < 2 mL/kg. to minimize dead space. 
3. The resistance of the combined apparatus should be <20% of 
the infant’s intrinsic resistance at the highest flow likely to be 
encountered, i.e. in term neonates, <0.7 kPa.L/sec. at 166 mL/ 
sec, whereas for a 1-yr-old, it may be 0.5 kPa.L/sec at 500 mL/ 
sec. 
4. For airway resistance measurements, a two-valve system 
should be provided. 
5. Automated closure should be feasible at end inspiration (EI), 
end expiration (EE), or other points through the breath as 
specified by the user. Programmable facility should be 
01 


--- Page 12 ---
Tender for Paediatric Plethysmography Machine                                                              Admn/Tender/75/2018-AIIMS.JDH
 
 
 
 
 
AIIMS-Jodhpur 
Page12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
available. 
6. Speed of valve opening and closing (excluding any lag time) 
should be <75 ms. 
7. The reports of FRC should be based on at least two complete 
respiratory efforts against the occlusion with the occlusion for 
at least 10 s. The shutter must be able to withstand pressures of 
3 kPa without any leaks or compressive effects. 
8. A "shutter test" should be incorporated within the software and 
calibration protocol, so that the shutter can be checked prior to 
each study occasion. 
9. The shutter must be easy to clean and reassemble. It should be 
light, with suitable means of support and easy manipulation 
within the box. 
10. Activation of the shutter should result in minimal volume 
change 10-20 ml within the box and be as quiet as possible to 
avoid disturbing the infant or altering sleep state. 
Specification for mask 
1. Dead space should be minimal and < 50% of total volume. 
2. There should be different size of face masks for newborn, 
infant and child  
3. The use of therapeutic putty to achieve a good, airtight seal is 
recommended 
Accessories with the equipment 
Face mask and other disposable accessories should be provided 
for 300 tests. 
Training 
The company should provide an application specialist to train 
the doctors for caring out test on site.  
All software should be included in the bid.  
The software should be upgradeable during the life of the 
equipment. 
Demonstration of the equipment is a must. 
Warranty and CMC 
1. The bidder must quote for 5-years comprehensive warranty 
(including all spares, accessories and labour) from the date of 
completion of the satisfactory installation. The warranty 
charges should not be quoted separately. 
2. The bidders should submit their quote (rates) for subsequent 5 
years Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) (including 
all spares, accessories and labour) and these rates should be 
freeze. 
Ambient temperature and pressure 
 
As per ATS/ERS recommendation 
The company should ensure turn key installation 


